  Spatiotemporal pattern formation in a product-activated enzymic reaction at
high enzyme concentrations is investigated. Stochastic simulations show that
catalytic turnover cycles of individual enzymes can become coherent and that
complex wave patterns of molecular synchronization can develop. The analysis
based on the mean-field approximation indicates that the observed patterns
result from the presence of Hopf and wave bifurcations in the considered
system.
  This is a supplement to the paper arXiv:q-bio/0701050, containing the text of
correspondence sent to Nature in 1990.
  The multisite phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle is a motif repeatedly
used in cell signaling. This motif itself can generate a variety of dynamic
behaviors like bistability and ultrasensitivity without direct positive
feedbacks. In this paper, we study the number of positive steady states of a
general multisite phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle, and how the number
of positive steady states varies by changing the biological parameters. We show
analytically that (1) for some parameter ranges, there are at least n+1 (if n
is even) or n (if n is odd) steady states; (2) there never are more than 2n-1
steady states (in particular, this implies that for n=2, including single
levels of MAPK cascades, there are at most three steady states); (3) for
parameters near the standard Michaelis-Menten quasi-steady state conditions,
there are at most n+1 steady states; and (4) for parameters far from the
standard Michaelis-Menten quasi-steady state conditions, there is at most one
steady state.
  By means of the diffusion entropy approach, we detect the scale-invariance
characteristics embedded in the 4737 human promoter sequences. The exponent for
the scale-invariance is in a wide range of $[ {0.3,0.9} ]$, which centered at
$\delta_c = 0.66$. The distribution of the exponent can be separated into left
and right branches with respect to the maximum. The left and right branches are
asymmetric and can be fitted exactly with Gaussian form with different widths,
respectively.
  A number of recently discovered protein structures incorporate a rather
unexpected structural feature: a knot in the polypeptide backbone. These knots
are extremely rare, but their occurrence is likely connected to protein
function in as yet unexplored fashion. Our analysis of the complete Protein
Data Bank reveals several new knots which, along with previously discovered
ones, can shed light on such connections. In particular, we identify the most
complex knot discovered to date in human ubiquitin hydrolase, and suggest that
its entangled topology protects it against unfolding and degradation by the
proteasome. Knots in proteins are typically preserved across species and
sometimes even across kingdoms. However, we also identify a knot which only
appears in some transcarbamylases while being absent in homologous proteins of
similar structure. The emergence of the knot is accompanied by a shift in the
enzymatic function of the protein. We suggest that the simple insertion of a
short DNA fragment into the gene may suffice to turn an unknotted into a
knotted structure in this protein.
  We present some numerical results obtained from a simple individual based
model that describes clustering of organisms caused by competition. Our aim is
to show how, even when a deterministic description developed for continuum
models predicts no pattern formation, an individual based model displays well
defined patterns, as a consequence of fluctuations effects caused by the
discrete nature of the interacting agents.
  This paper discusses the benefits of describing the world as information,
especially in the study of the evolution of life and cognition. Traditional
studies encounter problems because it is difficult to describe life and
cognition in terms of matter and energy, since their laws are valid only at the
physical scale. However, if matter and energy, as well as life and cognition,
are described in terms of information, evolution can be described consistently
as information becoming more complex.
  The paper presents eight tentative laws of information, valid at multiple
scales, which are generalizations of Darwinian, cybernetic, thermodynamic,
psychological, philosophical, and complexity principles. These are further used
to discuss the notions of life, cognition and their evolution.
  Alexander B. Medvinsky \emph{et al} [A. B. Medvinsky, I. A. Tikhonova, R. R.
Aliev, B.-L. Li, Z.-S. Lin, and H. Malchow, Phys. Rev. E \textbf{64}, 021915
(2001)] and Marcus R. Garvie \emph{et al} [M. R. Garvie and C. Trenchea, SIAM
J. Control. Optim. \textbf{46}, 775-791 (2007)] shown that the minimal
spatially extended reaction-diffusion model of phytoplankton-zooplankton can
exhibit both regular, chaotic behavior, and spatiotemporal patterns in a patchy
environment. Based on that, the spatial plankton model is furtherly
investigated by means of computer simulations and theoretical analysis in the
present paper when its parameters would be expected in the case of mixed
Turing-Hopf bifurcation region. Our results show that the spiral waves exist in
that region and the spatiotemporal chaos emerge, which arise from the far-field
breakup of the spiral waves over large ranges of diffusion coefficients of
phytoplankton and zooplankton. Moreover, the spatiotemporal chaos arising from
the far-field breakup of spiral waves does not gradually involve the whole
space within that region. Our results are confirmed by means of computation
spectra and nonlinear bifurcation of wave trains. Finally, we give some
explanations about the spatially structured patterns from the community level.
  This letter reports complete sets of two-fold symmetries between partitions
of the universal genetic code. By substituting bases at each position of the
codons according to a fixed rule, it happens that properties of the degeneracy
pattern or of tRNA aminoacylation specificity are exchanged.
  Population structure induced by both spatial embedding and more general
networks of interaction, such as model social networks, have been shown to have
a fundamental effect on the dynamics and outcome of evolutionary games. These
effects have, however, proved to be sensitive to the details of the underlying
topology and dynamics. Here we introduce a minimal population structure that is
described by two distinct hierarchical levels of interaction. We believe this
model is able to identify effects of spatial structure that do not depend on
the details of the topology. We derive the dynamics governing the evolution of
a system starting from fundamental individual level stochastic processes
through two successive meanfield approximations. In our model of population
structure the topology of interactions is described by only two parameters: the
effective population size at the local scale and the relative strength of local
dynamics to global mixing. We demonstrate, for example, the existence of a
continuous transition leading to the dominance of cooperation in populations
with hierarchical levels of unstructured mixing as the benefit to cost ratio
becomes smaller then the local population size. Applying our model of spatial
structure to the repeated prisoner's dilemma we uncover a novel and
counterintuitive mechanism by which the constant influx of defectors sustains
cooperation. Further exploring the phase space of the repeated prisoner's
dilemma and also of the "rock-paper-scissor" game we find indications of rich
structure and are able to reproduce several effects observed in other models
with explicit spatial embedding, such as the maintenance of biodiversity and
the emergence of global oscillations.
  Structure entails function and thus a structural description of the brain
will help to understand its function and may provide insights into many
properties of brain systems, from their robustness and recovery from damage, to
their dynamics and even their evolution. Advances in the analysis of complex
networks provide useful new approaches to understanding structural and
functional properties of brain networks. Structural properties of networks
recently described allow their characterization as small-world, random
(exponential) and scale-free. They complement the set of other properties that
have been explored in the context of brain connectivity, such as topology,
hodology, clustering, and hierarchical organization. Here we apply new network
analysis methods to cortical inter-areal connectivity networks for the cat and
macaque brains. We compare these corticocortical fibre networks to benchmark
rewired, small-world, scale-free and random networks, using two analysis
strategies, in which we measure the effects of the removal of nodes and
connections on the structural properties of the cortical networks. The brain
networks' structural decay is in most respects similar to that of scale-free
networks. The results implicate highly connected hub-nodes and bottleneck
connections as structural basis for some of the conditional robustness of brain
systems. This informs the understanding of the development of brain networks'
connectivity.
  Is it possible to understand cancer? Or more specifically, is it possible to
understand cancer from genetic side? There already many answers in literature.
The most optimistic one has claimed that it is mission-possible. Duesberg and
his colleagues reviewed the impressive amount of research results on cancer
accumulated over 100 years. It confirms the a general opinion that considering
all available experimental results and clinical observations there is no cancer
theory without major difficulties, including the prevailing gene-based cancer
theories. They have then listed 9 "absolute discrepancies" for such cancer
theory. In this letter the quantitative evidence against one of their major
reasons for dismissing mutation cancer theory, by both in vivo experiment and a
first principle computation, is explicitly pointed out.
  Annealed importance sampling is a means to assign equilibrium weights to a
nonequilibrium sample that was generated by a simulated annealing protocol. The
weights may then be used to calculate equilibrium averages, and also serve as
an ``adiabatic signature'' of the chosen cooling schedule. In this paper we
demonstrate the method on the 50-atom dileucine peptide, showing that
equilibrium distributions are attained for manageable cooling schedules. For
this system, as naively implemented here, the method is modestly more efficient
than constant temperature simulation. However, the method is worth considering
whenever any simulated heating or cooling is performed (as is often done at the
beginning of a simulation project, or during an NMR structure calculation), as
it is simple to implement and requires minimal additional CPU expense.
Furthermore, the naive implementation presented here can be improved.
  Despite their claimed biological plausibility, most self organizing networks
have strict topological constraints and consequently they cannot take into
account a wide range of external stimuli. Furthermore their evolution is
conditioned by deterministic laws which often are not correlated with the
structural parameters and the global status of the network, as it should happen
in a real biological system. In nature the environmental inputs are noise
affected and fuzzy. Which thing sets the problem to investigate the possibility
of emergent behaviour in a not strictly constrained net and subjected to
different inputs. It is here presented a new model of Evolutionary Neural Gas
(ENG) with any topological constraints, trained by probabilistic laws depending
on the local distortion errors and the network dimension. The network is
considered as a population of nodes that coexist in an ecosystem sharing local
and global resources. Those particular features allow the network to quickly
adapt to the environment, according to its dimensions. The ENG model analysis
shows that the net evolves as a scale-free graph, and justifies in a deeply
physical sense- the term gas here used.
  The parsimony score of a character on a tree equals the number of state
changes required to fit that character onto the tree. We show that for
unordered, reversible characters this score equals the number of tree
rearrangements required to fit the tree onto the character. We discuss
implications of this connection for the debate over the use of consensus trees
or total evidence, and show how it provides a link between incongruence of
characters and recombination.
  A coarse-grained computational procedure based on the Finite Element Method
is proposed to calculate the normal modes and mechanical response of proteins
and their supramolecular assemblies. Motivated by the elastic network model,
proteins are modeled as homogeneous isotropic elastic solids with volume
defined by their solvent-excluded surface. The discretized Finite Element
representation is obtained using a surface simplification algorithm that
facilitates the generation of models of arbitrary prescribed spatial
resolution. The procedure is applied to compute the normal modes of a mutant of
T4 phage lysozyme and of filamentous actin, as well as the critical Euler
buckling load of the latter when subject to axial compression. Results compare
favorably with all-atom normal mode analysis, the Rotation Translation Blocks
procedure, and experiment. The proposed methodology establishes a computational
framework for the calculation of protein mechanical response that facilitates
the incorporation of specific atomic-level interactions into the model,
including aqueous-electrolyte-mediated electrostatic effects. The procedure is
equally applicable to proteins with known atomic coordinates as it is to
electron density maps of proteins, protein complexes, and supramolecular
assemblies of unknown atomic structure.
  In this paper a theoretical model of functioning of a neural circuit during a
behavioral response has been proposed. A neural circuit can be thought of as a
directed multigraph whose each vertex is a neuron and each edge is a synapse.
It has been assumed in this paper that the behavior of such circuits is
manifested through the collective behavior of neurons belonging to that
circuit. Behavioral information of each neuron is contained in the coefficients
of the fast Fourier transform (FFT) over the output spike train. Those
coefficients form a vector in a multidimensional vector space. Behavioral
dynamics of a neuronal network in response to strong aversive stimuli has been
studied in a vector space in which a suitable pseudometric has been defined.
The neurodynamical model of network behavior has been formulated in terms of
existing memory, synaptic plasticity and feelings. The model has an analogy in
classical electrostatics, by which the notion of force and potential energy has
been introduced. Since the model takes input from each neuron in a network and
produces a behavior as the output, it would be extremely difficult or may even
be impossible to implement. But with the help of the model a possible
explanation for an hitherto unexplained neurological observation in human brain
has been offered. The model is compatible with a recent model of sequential
behavioral dynamics. The model is based on electrophysiology, but its relevance
to hemodynamics has been outlined.
  Suprathreshold stochastic resonance (SSR) is a form of noise enhanced signal
transmission that occurs in a parallel array of independently noisy identical
threshold nonlinearities, including model neurons. Unlike most forms of
stochastic resonance, the output response to suprathreshold random input
signals of arbitrary magnitude is improved by the presence of even small
amounts of noise. In this paper the information transmission performance of SSR
in the limit of a large array size is considered. Using a relationship between
Shannon's mutual information and Fisher information, a sufficient condition for
optimality, i.e. channel capacity, is derived. It is shown that capacity is
achieved when the signal distribution is Jeffrey's prior, as formed from the
noise distribution, or when the noise distribution depends on the signal
distribution via a cosine relationship. These results provide theoretical
verification and justification for previous work in both computational
neuroscience and electronics.
  The holographic bound in physics constrains the complexity of life. The
finite storage capability of information in the observable universe requires
the protein linguistics in the evolution of life. We find that the evolution of
genetic code determines the variance of amino acid frequencies and genomic GC
content among species. The elegant linguistic mechanism is confirmed by the
experimental observations based on all known entire proteomes.
  A fast and accurate computational scheme for simulating nonlinear dynamic
systems is presented. The scheme assumes that the system can be represented by
a combination of components of only two different types: first-order low-pass
filters and static nonlinearities. The parameters of these filters and
nonlinearities may depend on system variables, and the topology of the system
may be complex, including feedback. Several examples taken from neuroscience
are given: phototransduction, photopigment bleaching, and spike generation
according to the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. The scheme uses two slightly
different forms of autoregressive filters, with an implicit delay of zero for
feedforward control and an implicit delay of half a sample distance for
feedback control. On a fairly complex model of the macaque retinal horizontal
cell it computes, for a given level of accuracy, 1-2 orders of magnitude faster
than 4th-order Runge-Kutta. The computational scheme has minimal memory
requirements, and is also suited for computation on a stream processor, such as
a GPU (Graphical Processing Unit).
  We present a simple and generic theoretical description of actin-based
motility, where polymerization of filaments maintains propulsion. The dynamics
is driven by polymerization kinetics at the filaments' free ends, crosslinking
of the actin network, attachment and detachment of filaments to the obstacle
interfaces and entropic forces. We show that spontaneous oscillations in the
velocity emerge in a broad range of parameter values, and compare our findings
with experiments.
  Conformational transitions in macromolecular complexes often involve the
reorientation of lever-like structures. Using a simple theoretical model, we
show that the rate of such transitions is drastically enhanced if the lever is
bendable, e.g. at a localized "hinge''. Surprisingly, the transition is fastest
with an intermediate flexibility of the hinge. In this intermediate regime, the
transition rate is also least sensitive to the amount of "cargo'' attached to
the lever arm, which could be exploited by molecular motors. To explain this
effect, we generalize the Kramers-Langer theory for multi-dimensional barrier
crossing to configuration dependent mobility matrices.
  We propose a combined experimental (Atomic Force Microscopy) and theoretical
study of the structural and dynamical properties of nucleosomes. In contrast to
biochemical approaches, this method allows to determine simultaneously the DNA
complexed length distribution and nucleosome position in various contexts.
First, we show that differences in the nucleo-proteic structure observed
between conventional H2A and H2A.Bbd variant nucleosomes induce quantitative
changes in the in the length distribution of DNA complexed with histones. Then,
the sliding action of remodeling complex SWI/SNF is characterized through the
evolution of the nucleosome position and wrapped DNA length mapping. Using a
linear energetic model for the distribution of DNA complexed length, we extract
the net wrapping energy of DNA onto the histone octamer, and compare it to
previous studies.
  The class of 2-interval graphs has been introduced for modelling scheduling
and allocation problems, and more recently for specific bioinformatic problems.
Some of those applications imply restrictions on the 2-interval graphs, and
justify the introduction of a hierarchy of subclasses of 2-interval graphs that
generalize line graphs: balanced 2-interval graphs, unit 2-interval graphs, and
(x,x)-interval graphs. We provide instances that show that all the inclusions
are strict. We extend the NP-completeness proof of recognizing 2-interval
graphs to the recognition of balanced 2-interval graphs. Finally we give hints
on the complexity of unit 2-interval graphs recognition, by studying
relationships with other graph classes: proper circular-arc, quasi-line graphs,
K_{1,5}-free graphs, ...
  Fluctuations in the abundance of molecules in the living cell may affect its
growth and well being. For regulatory molecules (e.g., signaling proteins or
transcription factors), fluctuations in their expression can affect the levels
of downstream targets in a network. Here, we develop an analytic framework to
investigate the phenomenon of noise correlation in molecular networks.
Specifically, we focus on the metabolic network, which is highly inter-linked,
and noise properties may constrain its structure and function. Motivated by the
analogy between the dynamics of a linear metabolic pathway and that of the
exactly soluable linear queueing network or, alternatively, a mass transfer
system, we derive a plethora of results concerning fluctuations in the
abundance of intermediate metabolites in various common motifs of the metabolic
network. For all but one case examined, we find the steady-state fluctuation in
different nodes of the pathways to be effectively uncorrelated. Consequently,
fluctuations in enzyme levels only affect local properties and do not propagate
elsewhere into metabolic networks, and intermediate metabolites can be freely
shared by different reactions. Our approach may be applicable to study
metabolic networks with more complex topologies, or protein signaling networks
which are governed by similar biochemical reactions. Possible implications for
bioinformatic analysis of metabolimic data are discussed.
  Many important real-world networks manifest "small-world" properties such as
scale-free degree distributions, small diameters, and clustering. The most
common model of growth for these networks is "preferential attachment", where
nodes acquire new links with probability proportional to the number of links
they already have. We show that preferential attachment is a special case of
the process of molecular evolution. We present a new single-parameter model of
network growth that unifies varieties of preferential attachment with the
quasispecies equation (which models molecular evolution), and also with the
Erdos-Renyi random graph model. We suggest some properties of evolutionary
models that might be applied to the study of networks. We also derive the form
of the degree distribution resulting from our algorithm, and we show through
simulations that the process also models aspects of network growth. The
unification allows mathematical machinery developed for evolutionary dynamics
to be applied in the study of network dynamics, and vice versa.
  BACKGROUND: An important question is whether evolution favors properties such
as mutational robustness or evolvability that do not directly benefit any
individual, but can influence the course of future evolution. Functionally
similar proteins can differ substantially in their robustness to mutations and
capacity to evolve new functions, but it has remained unclear whether any of
these differences might be due to evolutionary selection for these properties.
  RESULTS: Here we use laboratory experiments to demonstrate that evolution
favors protein mutational robustness if the evolving population is sufficiently
large. We neutrally evolve cytochrome P450 proteins under identical selection
pressures and mutation rates in populations of different sizes, and show that
proteins from the larger and thus more polymorphic population tend towards
higher mutational robustness. Proteins from the larger population also evolve
greater stability, a biophysical property that is known to enhance both
mutational robustness and evolvability. The excess mutational robustness and
stability is well described by existing mathematical theories, and can be
quantitatively related to the way that the proteins occupy their neutral
network.
  CONCLUSIONS: Our work is the first experimental demonstration of the general
tendency of evolution to favor mutational robustness and protein stability in
highly polymorphic populations. We suggest that this phenomenon may contribute
to the mutational robustness and evolvability of viruses and bacteria that
exist in large populations.
  A practical introduction to stochastic modelling of reaction-diffusion
processes is presented. No prior knowledge of stochastic simulations is
assumed. The methods are explained using illustrative examples. The article
starts with the classical Gillespie algorithm for the stochastic modelling of
chemical reactions. Then stochastic algorithms for modelling molecular
diffusion are given. Finally, basic stochastic reaction-diffusion methods are
presented. The connections between stochastic simulations and deterministic
models are explained and basic mathematical tools (e.g. chemical master
equation) are presented. The article concludes with an overview of more
advanced methods and problems.
  Data on the prevalence of bone cancer in dinosaurs is available from past
radiological examination of preserved bones. We statistically test this data
for consistency with rates extrapolated from information on bone cancer in
modern vertebrates, and find that there is no evidence of a different rate.
Thus, this test provides no support for a possible role of ionizing radiation
in the K-T extinction event.
  Objectives: In this study, we quantify the growth variability of tumour cell
clones from a human leukemia cell line. Materials and methods: We have used
microplate spectrophotometry to measure the growth kinetics of hundreds of
individual cell clones from the Molt3 cell line. The growth rate of each clonal
population has been estimated by fitting experimental data with the logistic
equation. Results: The growth rates were observed to vary among different
clones. Up to six clones with a growth rate above or below the mean growth rate
of the parent population were further cloned and the growth rates of their
offsprings were measured. The distribution of the growth rates of the subclones
did not significantly differ from that of the parent population thus suggesting
that growth variability has an epigenetic origin. To explain the observed
distributions of clonal growth rates we have developed a probabilistic model
assuming that the fluctuations in the number of mitochondria through successive
cell cycles are the leading cause of growth variability. For fitting purposes,
we have estimated experimentally by flow cytometry the maximum average number
of mitochondria in Molt3 cells. The model fits nicely the observed
distributions of growth rates, however, cells in which the mitochondria were
rendered non functional (rho-0 cells) showed only a 30% reduction in the clonal
growth variability with respect to normal cells. Conclusions: A tumor cell
population is a dynamic ensemble of clones with highly variable growth rate. At
least part of this variability is due to fluctuations in the number of
mitochondria.
  Chargaff's second parity rule holds empirically for most types of DNA that
along single strands of DNA the base contents are equal for complimentary
bases, A = T, G = C. A Markov chain model is constructed to track the evolution
of any single base position along single strands of genomes whose organisms are
equipped with replication mismatch repair. Under the key assumptions that
mismatch error rates primarily depend the number of hydrogen bonds of
nucleotides and that the mismatch repairing process itself makes strand
recognition error, the model shows that the steady state probabilities for any
base position to take on one of the 4 nucleotide bases are equal for
complimentary bases. As a result, Chargaff's second parity rule is the
manifestation of the Law of Large Number acting on the steady state
probabilities. More importantly, because the model pinpoints mismatch repair as
a basis of the rule, it is suitable for experimental verification.
  A Boolean network model of the cell-cycle regulatory network of fission yeast
(Schizosaccharomyces Pombe) is constructed solely on the basis of the known
biochemical interaction topology. Simulating the model in the computer,
faithfully reproduces the known sequence of regulatory activity patterns along
the cell cycle of the living cell. Contrary to existing differential equation
models, no parameters enter the model except the structure of the regulatory
circuitry. The dynamical properties of the model indicate that the biological
dynamical sequence is robustly implemented in the regulatory network, with the
biological stationary state G1 corresponding to the dominant attractor in state
space, and with the biological regulatory sequence being a strongly attractive
trajectory. Comparing the fission yeast cell-cycle model to a similar model of
the corresponding network in S. cerevisiae, a remarkable difference in
circuitry, as well as dynamics is observed. While the latter operates in a
strongly damped mode, driven by external excitation, the S. pombe network
represents an auto-excited system with external damping.
  Phylogenetic mixtures model the inhomogeneous molecular evolution commonly
observed in data. The performance of phylogenetic reconstruction methods where
the underlying data is generated by a mixture model has stimulated considerable
recent debate. Much of the controversy stems from simulations of mixture model
data on a given tree topology for which reconstruction algorithms output a tree
of a different topology; these findings were held up to show the shortcomings
of particular tree reconstruction methods. In so doing, the underlying
assumption was that mixture model data on one topology can be distinguished
from data evolved on an unmixed tree of another topology given enough data and
the ``correct'' method. Here we show that this assumption can be false. For
biologists our results imply that, for example, the combined data from two
genes whose phylogenetic trees differ only in terms of branch lengths can
perfectly fit a tree of a different topology.
  Protein-DNA complexes with loops play a fundamental role in a wide variety of
cellular processes, ranging from the regulation of DNA transcription to
telomere maintenance. As ubiquitous as they are, their precise in vivo
properties and their integration into the cellular function still remain
largely unexplored. Here, we present a multilevel approach that efficiently
connects in both directions molecular properties with cell physiology and use
it to characterize the molecular properties of the looped DNA-lac repressor
complex while functioning in vivo. The properties we uncover include the
presence of two representative conformations of the complex, the stabilization
of one conformation by DNA architectural proteins, and precise values of the
underlying twisting elastic constants and bending free energies. Incorporation
of all this molecular information into gene-regulation models reveals an
unprecedented versatility of looped DNA-protein complexes at shaping the
properties of gene expression.
  Surviving in a diverse environment requires corresponding organism responses.
At the cellular level, such adjustment relies on the transcription factors
(TFs) which must rapidly find their target sequences amidst a vast amount of
non-relevant sequences on DNA molecules. Whether these transcription factors
locate their target sites through a 1D or 3D pathway is still a matter of
speculation. It has been suggested that the optimum search time is when the
protein equally shares its search time between 1D and 3D diffusions. In this
paper, we study the above problem using a Monte Carlo simulation by considering
a very simple physical model. A 1D strip, representing a DNA, with a number of
low affinity sites, corresponding to non-target sites, and high affinity sites,
corresponding to target sites, is considered and later extended to a 2D strip.
We study the 1D and 3D exploration pathways, and combinations of the two modes
by considering three different types of molecules: a walker that randomly walks
along the strip with no dissociation; a jumper that represents dissociation and
then re-association of a TF with the strip at later time at a distant site; and
a hopper that is similar to the jumper but it dissociates and then
re-associates at a faster rate than the jumper. We analyze the final
probability distribution of molecules for each case and find that TFs can
locate their targets fast enough even if they spend 15% of their search time
diffusing freely in the solution. This indeed agrees with recent experimental
results obtained by Elf et al. 2007 and is in contrast with theoretical
expectation.
  We report 10 successfully folding events of trpzip2 by molecular dynamics
simulation. It is found that the trizip2 can fold into its native state through
different zipper pathways, depending on the ways of forming hydrophobic core.
We also find a very fast non-zipper pathway. This indicates that there may be
no inconsistencies in the current pictures of beta-hairpin folding mechanisms.
These pathways occur with different probabilities. zip-out is the most probable
one. This may explain the recent experiment that the turn formation is the
rate-limiting step for beta-hairpin folding.
  Is it possible to link a set of nodes without using preexisting positional
information or any kind of long-range attraction of the nodes? Can the process
of generating positional information, i.e. the detection of ``unknown'' nodes
and the estabishment of chemical gradients, \emph{and} the process of network
formation, i.e. the establishment of links between nodes, occur in parallel, on
a comparable time scale, as a process of co-evolution?
  The paper discusses a model where the generation of relevant information for
establishing the links between nodes results from the interaction of many
\emph{agents}, i.e. subunits of the system that are capable of performing some
activities. Their collective interaction is based on (indirect) communication,
which also includes memory effects and the dissemination of information in the
system. The relevant (``pragmatic'') information that leads to the
establishment of the links then emerges from an evolutionary interplay of
selection and reamplification.
  The complementary strands of DNA molecules can be separated when stretched
apart by a force; the unzipping signal is correlated to the base content of the
sequence but is affected by thermal and instrumental noise. We consider here
the ideal case where opening events are known to a very good time resolution
(very large bandwidth), and study how the sequence can be reconstructed from
the unzipping data. Our approach relies on the use of statistical Bayesian
inference and of Viterbi decoding algorithm. Performances are studied
numerically on Monte Carlo generated data, and analytically. We show how
multiple unzippings of the same molecule may be exploited to improve the
quality of the prediction, and calculate analytically the number of required
unzippings as a function of the bandwidth, the sequence content, the elasticity
parameters of the unzipped strands.
  In this paper, we propose a novel inference method for dynamic genetic
networks which makes it possible to face with a number of time measurements n
much smaller than the number of genes p. The approach is based on the concept
of low order conditional dependence graph that we extend here in the case of
Dynamic Bayesian Networks. Most of our results are based on the theory of
graphical models associated with the Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs). In this
way, we define a minimal DAG G which describes exactly the full order
conditional dependencies given the past of the process. Then, to face with the
large p and small n estimation case, we propose to approximate DAG G by
considering low order conditional independencies. We introduce partial qth
order conditional dependence DAGs G(q) and analyze their probabilistic
properties. In general, DAGs G(q) differ from DAG G but still reflect relevant
dependence facts for sparse networks such as genetic networks. By using this
approximation, we set out a non-bayesian inference method and demonstrate the
effectiveness of this approach on both simulated and real data analysis. The
inference procedure is implemented in the R package 'G1DBN' freely available
from the CRAN archive.
  The puzzle presented by the famous stumps of Gilboa, New York, finds a
solution in the discovery of two fossil specimens that allow the entire
structure of these early trees to be reconstructed.
  If predictions for species extinctions hold, then the `tree of life' today
may be quite different to that in (say) 100 years. We describe a technique to
quantify how much each species is likely to contribute to future biodiversity,
as measured by its expected contribution to phylogenetic diversity. Our
approach considers all possible scenarios for the set of species that will be
extant at some future time, and weights them according to their likelihood
under an independent (but not identical) distribution on species extinctions.
Although the number of extinction scenarios can typically be very large, we
show that there is a simple algorithm that will quickly compute this index. The
method is implemented and applied to the prosimian primates as a test case, and
the associated species ranking is compared to a related measure (the `Shapley
index'). We describe indices for rooted and unrooted trees, and a modification
that also includes the focal taxon's probability of extinction, making it
directly comparable to some new conservation metrics.
  For cellular biochemical reaction systems where the numbers of molecules is
small, significant noise is associated with chemical reaction events. This
molecular noise can give rise to behavior that is very different from the
predictions of deterministic rate equation models. Unfortunately, there are few
analytic methods for examining the qualitative behavior of stochastic systems.
Here we describe such a method that extends deterministic analysis to include
leading-order corrections due to the molecular noise. The method allows the
steady-state behavior of the stochastic model to be easily computed,
facilitates the mapping of stability phase diagrams that include stochastic
effects and reveals how model parameters affect noise susceptibility, in a
manner not accessible to numerical simulation. By way of illustration we
consider two genetic circuits: a bistable positive-feedback loop and a
negative-feedback oscillator. We find in the positive feedback circuit that
translational activation leads to a far more stable system than transcriptional
control. Conversely, in a negative-feedback loop triggered by a
positive-feedback switch, the stochasticity of transcriptional control is
harnessed to generate reproducible oscillations.
  Medvedev and Melott (2007) have suggested that periodicity in fossil
biodiversity may be induced by cosmic rays which vary as the Solar System
oscillates normal to the galactic disk. We re-examine the evidence for a 62
million year (Myr) periodicity in biodiversity throughout the Phanerozoic
history of animal life reported by Rohde & Mueller (2005), as well as related
questions of periodicity in origination and extinction. We find that the signal
is robust against variations in methods of analysis, and is based on
fluctuations in the Paleozoic and a substantial part of the Mesozoic.
Examination of origination and extinction is somewhat ambiguous, with results
depending upon procedure. Origination and extinction intensity as defined by RM
may be affected by an artifact at 27 Myr in the duration of stratigraphic
intervals. Nevertheless, when a procedure free of this artifact is implemented,
the 27 Myr periodicity appears in origination, suggesting that the artifact may
ultimately be based on a signal in the data. A 62 Myr feature appears in
extinction, when this same procedure is used. We conclude that evidence for a
periodicity at 62 Myr is robust, and evidence for periodicity at approximately
27 Myr is also present, albeit more ambiguous.
  Secondary structure elements of many protein families exhibit differential
conservation on their opposing faces. Amphipathic helices and beta-sheets by
definition possess this property, and play crucial functional roles. This type
of evolutionary trajectory of a protein family is usually critical to the
functions of the protein family, as well as in creating functions within
subfamilies. That is, differential conservation maintains properties of a
protein structure related to its orientation, and that are important in
packing, recognition, and catalysis. Here I define and formulate a new concept,
called the selection moment, that detects this evolutionary process in protein
sequences. A treatment of its various applications is detailed.
  A fundamental problem in neuroscience is understanding how working memory --
the ability to store information at intermediate timescales, like 10s of
seconds -- is implemented in realistic neuronal networks. The most likely
candidate mechanism is the attractor network, and a great deal of effort has
gone toward investigating it theoretically. Yet, despite almost a quarter
century of intense work, attractor networks are not fully understood. In
particular, there are still two unanswered questions. First, how is it that
attractor networks exhibit irregular firing, as is observed experimentally
during working memory tasks? And second, how many memories can be stored under
biologically realistic conditions? Here we answer both questions by studying an
attractor neural network in which inhibition and excitation balance each other.
Using mean field analysis, we derive a three-variable description of attractor
networks. From this description it follows that irregular firing can exist only
if the number of neurons involved in a memory is large. The same mean field
analysis also shows that the number of memories that can be stored in a network
scales with the number of excitatory connections, a result that has been
suggested for simple models but never shown for realistic ones. Both of these
predictions are verified using simulations with large networks of spiking
neurons.
  Successful predictions are among the most compelling validations of any
model. Extracting falsifiable predictions from nonlinear multiparameter models
is complicated by the fact that such models are commonly sloppy, possessing
sensitivities to different parameter combinations that range over many decades.
Here we discuss how sloppiness affects the sorts of data that best constrain
model predictions, makes linear uncertainty approximations dangerous, and
introduces computational difficulties in Monte-Carlo uncertainty analysis. We
also present a useful test problem and suggest refinements to the standards by
which models are communicated.
  In most vertebrate species, the body axis is generated by the formation of
repeated transient structures called somites. This spatial periodicity in
somitogenesis has been related to the temporally sustained oscillations in
certain mRNAs and their associated gene products in the cells forming the
presomatic mesoderm. The mechanism underlying these oscillations have been
identified as due to the delays involved in the synthesis of mRNA and
translation into protein molecules [J. Lewis, Current Biol. {\bf 13}, 1398
(2003)]. In addition, in the zebrafish embryo intercellular Notch signalling
couples these oscillators and a longitudinal positional information signal in
the form of an Fgf8 gradient exists that could be used to transform these
coupled temporal oscillations into the observed spatial periodicity of somites.
Here we consider a simple model based on this known biology and study its
consequences for somitogenesis. Comparison is made with the known properties of
somite formation in the zebrafish embryo . We also study the effects of
localized Fgf8 perturbations on somite patterning.
  We demonstrate the power of the genetic algorithms to construct the cellular
automata model simulating the growth of 2-dimensional close-to-circular
clusters revealing the desired properties, such as the growth rate and, at the
same time, the fractal behavior of their contours. The possible application of
the approach in the field of tumor modeling is outlined.
  An epidemic multi-strain model with temporary cross-immunity shows chaos,
even in a previously unexpected parameter region. Especially dengue fever
models with strong enhanced infectivity on secondary infection have previously
shown deterministic chaos motivated by experimental findings of
antibody-dependent-enhancement (ADE). Including temporary cross-immunity in
such models, which is common knowledge among field researchers in dengue, we
find a deterministically chaotic attractor in the more realistic parameter
region of reduced infectivity on secondary infection (''inverse ADE'' parameter
region). This is realistic for dengue fever since on second infection people
are more likely to be hospitalized, hence do not contribute to the force of
infection as much as people with first infection.
  Our finding has wider implications beyond dengue in any multi-strain
epidemiological systems with altered infectivity upon secondary infection,
since we can relax the condition of rather high infectivity on secondary
infection previously required for deterministic chaos. For dengue the finding
of wide ranges of chaotic attractors open new ways to analysis of existing data
sets.
  RNA motifs typically consist of short, modular patterns that include base
pairs formed within and between modules. Estimating the abundance of these
patterns is of fundamental importance for assessing the statistical
significance of matches in genomewide searches, and for predicting whether a
given function has evolved many times in different species or arose from a
single common ancestor. In this manuscript, we review in an integrated and
self-contained manner some basic concepts of automata theory, generating
functions and transfer matrix methods that are relevant to pattern analysis in
biological sequences. We formalize, in a general framework, the concept of
Markov chain embedding to analyze patterns in random strings produced by a
memoryless source. This conceptualization, together with the capability of
automata to recognize complicated patterns, allows a systematic analysis of
problems related to the occurrence and frequency of patterns in random strings.
The applications we present focus on the concept of synchronization of
automata, as well as automata used to search for a finite number of keywords
(including sets of patterns generated according to base pairing rules) in a
general text.
  The time-dependent transverse response of stiff polymers, represented as
weakly-bending wormlike chains (WLCs), is well-understood on the linear level,
where transverse degrees of freedom evolve independently from the longitudinal
ones. We show that, beyond a characteristic time scale, the nonlinear coupling
of transverse and longitudinal motion in an inextensible WLC significantly
weakens the polymer response compared to the widely used linear response
predictions. The corresponding feedback mechanism is rationalized by scaling
arguments and quantified by a multiple scale approach that exploits an inherent
separation of transverse and longitudinal correlation length scales. Crossover
scaling laws and exact analytical and numerical solutions for characteristic
response quantities are derived for different experimentally relevant setups.
Our findings are applicable to cytoskeletal filaments as well as DNA under
tension.
  Linear measures such as cross-correlation have been used successfully to
determine time delays from the given processes. Such an analysis often precedes
identifying possible causal relationships between the observed processes. The
present study investigates the impact of a positively correlated driver whose
correlation function decreases monotonically with lag on the delay estimation
in a two-node acyclic network with one and two-delays. It is shown that
cross-correlation analysis of the given processes can result in spurious
identification of multiple delays between the driver and the dependent
processes. Subsequently, delay estimation of increment process as opposed to
the original process under certain implicit constraints is explored.
Short-range and long-range correlated driver processes along with those of
their coarse-grained counterparts are considered.
  We have built an open-source software system for the modeling of biomolecular
reaction networks, SloppyCell, which is written in Python and makes substantial
use of third-party libraries for numerics, visualization, and parallel
programming. We highlight here some of the powerful features that Python
provides that enable SloppyCell to do dynamic code synthesis, symbolic
manipulation, and parallel exploration of complex parameter spaces.
  In the peripheral nervous system, utrophin and the short dystrophin isoform
(Dp116) are co-localized at the outermost layer of the myelin sheath of nerve
fibers; together with the dystroglycan complex. In peripheral nerve, matrix
metalloproteinase (MMP) creates a 30 kDa fragment of beta-dystroglycan, leading
to a disruption of the link between the extracellular matrix and the cell
membrane. Here we asked if the processing of the beta-dystroglycan could
influence the anchorage of Dp116 or/and utrophin in normal and mdx Schwann cell
membrane. We showed that MMP-9 was more activated in mdx nerve than in
wild-type one. This activation leads to an accumulation of the 30 kDa
beta-dystroglycan isoform and have an impact on the anchorage of Dp116 and
utrophin isoforms in mdx Schwann cells membrane. Our results showed that Dp116
had greater affinity to the full length form of beta-dystroglycan than the 30
kDa form. Moreover, we showed for the first time that the short isoform of
utrophin (Up71) was over-expressed in mdx Schwann cells compared to wild-type.
In addition, this utrophin isoform (Up71) seems to have greater affinity to the
30 kDa beta-dystroglycan which could explain a more stabilization of this 30
kDa at the membrane compartment. Our results highlight the potential
participation of the short utrophin isoform and the cleaved form of
beta-dystroglycan in mdx Schwann cell membrane architecture.
  Transcription regulation typically involves the binding of proteins over long
distances on multiple DNA sites that are brought close to each other by the
formation of DNA loops. The inherent complexity of the assembly of regulatory
complexes on looped DNA challenges the understanding of even the simplest
genetic systems, including the prototypical lac operon. Here we implement a
scalable quantitative computational approach to analyze systems regulated
through multiple DNA sites with looping. Our approach applied to the lac operon
accurately predicts the transcription rate over five orders of magnitude for
wild type and seven mutants accounting for all the combinations of deletions of
the three operators. A quantitative analysis of the model reveals that the
presence of three operators provides a mechanism to combine robust repression
with sensitive induction, two seemingly mutually exclusive properties that are
required for optimal functioning of metabolic switches.
  The present paper aims at introducing the innovative technologies, based on
the concept of "sensory substitution" or "perceptual supplementation", we are
developing in the fields of human disability and biomedical engineering.
Precisely, our goal is to design, develop and validate practical assistive
biomedical and/technical devices and/or rehabilitating procedures for persons
with disabilities, using artificial tongue-placed tactile biofeedback systems.
Proposed applications are dealing with: (1) pressure sores prevention in case
of spinal cord injuries (persons with paraplegia, or tetraplegia); (2) ankle
proprioceptive acuity improvement for driving assistance in older and/or
disabled adults; and (3) balance control improvement to prevent fall in older
and/or disabled adults. This paper presents results of three feasibility
studies performed on young healthy adults.
  How can a microorganism adapt to a variety of environmental conditions
despite there exists a limited number of signal transduction machineries? We
show that for any growing cells whose gene expression is under stochastic
fluctuations, adaptive cellular state is inevitably selected by noise, even
without specific signal transduction network for it. In general, changes in
protein concentration in a cell are given by its synthesis minus dilution and
degradation, both of which are proportional to the rate of cell growth. In an
adaptive state with a higher growth speed, both terms are large and balanced.
Under the presence of noise in gene expression, the adaptive state is less
affected by stochasticity since both the synthesis and dilution terms are
large, while for a non-adaptive state both the terms are smaller so that cells
are easily kicked out of the original state by noise. Hence, escape time from a
cellular state and the cellular growth rate are negatively correlated. This
leads to a selection of adaptive states with higher growth rates, and model
simulations confirm this selection to take place in general. The results
suggest a general form of adaptation that has never been brought to light - a
process that requires no specific machineries for sensory adaptation. The
present scheme may help explain a wide range of cellular adaptive responses
including the metabolic flux optimization for maximal cell growth.
  Pressure ulcers are recognized as a major health issue in individuals with
spinal cord injuries and new approaches to prevent this pathology are
necessary. An innovative health strategy is being developed through the use of
computer and sensory substitution via the tongue in order to compensate for the
sensory loss in the buttock area for individuals with paraplegia. This sensory
compensation will enable individuals with spinal cord injuries to be aware of a
localized excess of pressure at the skin/seat interface and, consequently, will
enable them to prevent the formation of pressure ulcers by relieving the
cutaneous area of suffering. This work reports an initial evaluation of this
approach and the feasibility of creating an adapted behavior, with a change in
pressure as a response to electro-stimulated information on the tongue.
Obtained during a clinical study in 10 healthy seated subjects, the first
results are encouraging, with 92% success in 100 performed tests. These
results, which have to be completed and validated in the paraplegic population,
may lead to a new approach to education in health to prevent the formation of
pressure ulcers within this population. Keywords: Spinal Cord Injuries,
Pressure Ulcer, Sensory Substitution, Health Education, Biomedical Informatics.
  Boolean Networks and their dynamics are of great interest as abstract
modeling schemes in various disciplines, ranging from biology to computer
science. Whereas parallel update schemes have been studied extensively in past
years, the level of understanding of asynchronous updates schemes is still very
poor. In this paper we study the propagation of external information given by
regulatory input variables into a random Boolean network. We compute both
analytically and numerically the time evolution and the asymptotic behavior of
this propagation of external regulation (PER). In particular, this allows us to
identify variables which are completely determined by this external
information. All those variables in the network which are not directly fixed by
PER form a core which contains in particular all non-trivial feedback loops. We
design a message-passing approach allowing to characterize the statistical
properties of these cores in dependence of the Boolean network and the external
condition. At the end we establish a link between PER dynamics and the full
random asynchronous dynamics of a Boolean network.
  One of the major problems in computational biology is the inability of
existing classification models to incorporate expanding and new domain
knowledge. This problem of static classification models is addressed in this
paper by the introduction of incremental learning for problems in
bioinformatics. Many machine learning tools have been applied to this problem
using static machine learning structures such as neural networks or support
vector machines that are unable to accommodate new information into their
existing models. We utilize the fuzzy ARTMAP as an alternate machine learning
system that has the ability of incrementally learning new data as it becomes
available. The fuzzy ARTMAP is found to be comparable to many of the widespread
machine learning systems. The use of an evolutionary strategy in the selection
and combination of individual classifiers into an ensemble system, coupled with
the incremental learning ability of the fuzzy ARTMAP is proven to be suitable
as a pattern classifier. The algorithm presented is tested using data from the
G-Coupled Protein Receptors Database and shows good accuracy of 83%. The system
presented is also generally applicable, and can be used in problems in genomics
and proteomics.
  The organization of the connectivity between mammalian cortical areas has
become a major subject of study, because of its important role in scaffolding
the macroscopic aspects of animal behavior and intelligence. In this study we
present a computational reconstruction approach to the problem of network
organization, by considering the topological and spatial features of each area
in the primate cerebral cortex as subsidy for the reconstruction of the global
cortical network connectivity. Starting with all areas being disconnected,
pairs of areas with similar sets of features are linked together, in an attempt
to recover the original network structure. Inferring primate cortical
connectivity from the properties of the nodes, remarkably good reconstructions
of the global network organization could be obtained, with the topological
features allowing slightly superior accuracy to the spatial ones. Analogous
reconstruction attempts for the C. elegans neuronal network resulted in
substantially poorer recovery, indicating that cortical area interconnections
are relatively stronger related to the considered topological and spatial
properties than neuronal projections in the nematode. The close relationship
between area-based features and global connectivity may hint on developmental
rules and constraints for cortical networks. Particularly, differences between
the predictions from topological and spatial properties, together with the
poorer recovery resulting from spatial properties, indicate that the
organization of cortical networks is not entirely determined by spatial
constraints.
  Position determination in biological systems is often achieved through
protein concentration gradients. Measuring the local concentration of such a
protein with a spatially-varying distribution allows the measurement of
position within the system. In order for these systems to work effectively,
position determination must be robust to noise. Here, we calculate fundamental
limits to the precision of position determination by concentration gradients
due to unavoidable biochemical noise perturbing the gradients. We focus on
gradient proteins with first order reaction kinetics. Systems of this type have
been experimentally characterised in both developmental and cell biology
settings. For a single gradient we show that, through time-averaging, great
precision can potentially be achieved even with very low protein copy numbers.
As a second example, we investigate the ability of a system with oppositely
directed gradients to find its centre. With this mechanism, positional
precision close to the centre improves more slowly with increasing averaging
time, and so longer averaging times or higher copy numbers are required for
high precision. For both single and double gradients, we demonstrate the
existence of optimal length scales for the gradients, where precision is
maximized, as well as analyzing how precision depends on the size of the
concentration measuring apparatus. Our results provide fundamental constraints
on the positional precision supplied by concentration gradients in various
contexts, including both in developmental biology and also within a single
cell.
  Simple nonlinear dynamical systems with multiple stable stationary states are
often taken as models for switchlike biological systems. This paper considers
the interaction of multiple such simple multistable systems when they are
embedded together into a larger dynamical "supersystem." Attention is focused
on the network structure of the resulting set of coupled differential
equations, and the consequences of this structure on the propensity of the
embedded switches to act independently versus cooperatively. Specifically, it
is argued that both larger average and larger variance of the node degree
distribution lead to increased switch independence. Given the frequency of
empirical observations of high variance degree distributions (e.g., power-law)
in biological networks, it is suggested that the results presented here may aid
in identifying switch-integrating subnetworks as comparatively homogenous,
low-degree, substructures. Potential applications to ecological problems such
as the relationship of stability and complexity are also briefly discussed.
  We present an exhaustive study of more than 250 ab initio potential energy
surfaces (PESs) of the model dipeptide HCO-L-Ala-NH2. The model chemistries
(MCs) used are constructed as homo- and heterolevels involving possibly
different RHF and MP2 calculations for the geometry and the energy. The basis
sets used belong to a sample of 39 selected representants from Pople's
split-valence families, ranging from the small 3-21G to the large
6-311++G(2df,2pd). The reference PES to which the rest are compared is the
MP2/6-311++G(2df,2pd) homolevel, which, as far as we are aware, is the more
accurate PES of a dipeptide in the literature. The aim of the study presented
is twofold: On the one hand, the evaluation of the influence of polarization
and diffuse functions in the basis set, distinguishing between those placed at
1st-row atoms and those placed at hydrogens, as well as the effect of different
contraction and valence splitting schemes. On the other hand, the investigation
of the heterolevel assumption, which is defined here to be that which states
that heterolevel MCs are more efficient than homolevel MCs. The heterolevel
approximation is very commonly used in the literature, but it is seldom
checked. As far as we know, the only tests for peptides or related systems,
have been performed using a small number of conformers, and this is the first
time that this potentially very economical approximation is tested in full
PESs. In order to achieve these goals, all data sets have been compared and
analyzed in a way which captures the nearness concept in the space of MCs.
  Late long-term potentiation (L-LTP) appears essential for the formation of
long-term memory, with memories at least partly encoded by patterns of
strengthened synapses. How memories are preserved for months or years, despite
molecular turnover, is not well understood. Ongoing recurrent neuronal
activity, during memory recall or during sleep, has been hypothesized to
preferentially potentiate strong synapses, preserving memories. This hypothesis
has not been evaluated in the context of a mathematical model representing
biochemical pathways important for L-LTP. I incorporated ongoing activity into
two such models: a reduced model that represents some of the essential
biochemical processes, and a more detailed published model. The reduced model
represents synaptic tagging and gene induction intuitively, and the detailed
model adds activation of essential kinases by Ca. Ongoing activity was modeled
as continual brief elevations of [Ca]. In each model, two stable states of
synaptic weight resulted. Positive feedback between synaptic weight and the
amplitude of ongoing Ca transients underlies this bistability. A tetanic or
theta-burst stimulus switches a model synapse from a low weight to a high
weight stabilized by ongoing activity. Bistability was robust to parameter
variations. Simulations illustrated that prolonged decreased activity reset
synapses to low weights, suggesting a plausible forgetting mechanism. However,
episodic activity with shorter inactive intervals maintained strong synapses.
Both models support experimental predictions. Tests of these predictions are
expected to further understanding of how neuronal activity is coupled to
maintenance of synaptic strength.
  We study the growth of a directed transportation network, such as a food web,
in which links carry resources. We propose a growth process in which new nodes
(or species) preferentially attach to existing nodes with high indegree (in
food-web language, number of prey) and low outdegree (or number of predators).
This scheme, which we call inverse preferential attachment, is intended to
maximize the amount of resources available to each new node. We show that the
outdegree (predator) distribution decays at least exponentially fast for large
outdegree and is continuously tunable between an exponential distribution and a
delta function. The indegree (prey) distribution is poissonian in the
large-network limit.
  The properties of certain networks are determined by hidden variables that
are not explicitly measured. The conditional probability (propagator) that a
vertex with a given value of the hidden variable is connected to k of other
vertices determines all measurable properties. We study hidden variable models
and find an averaging approximation that enables us to obtain a general
analytical result for the propagator. Analytic results showing the validity of
the approximation are obtained. We apply hidden variable models to
protein-protein interaction networks (PINs) in which the hidden variable is the
association free-energy, determined by distributions that depend on
biochemistry and evolution. We compute degree distributions as well as
clustering coefficients of several PINs of different species; good agreement
with measured data is obtained. For the human interactome two different
parameter sets give the same degree distributions, but the computed clustering
coefficients differ by a factor of about two. This shows that degree
distributions are not sufficient to determine the properties of PINs.
  A general and basic model of primordial evolution--a soup of reacting
finitary and discrete processes--is employed to identify and analyze
fundamental mechanisms that generate and maintain complex structures in
prebiotic systems. The processes--$\epsilon$-machines as defined in
computational mechanics--and their interaction networks both provide well
defined notions of structure. This enables us to quantitatively demonstrate
hierarchical self-organization in the soup in terms of complexity. We found
that replicating processes evolve the strategy of successively building higher
levels of organization by autocatalysis. Moreover, this is facilitated by local
components that have low structural complexity, but high generality. In effect,
the finitary process soup spontaneously evolves a selection pressure that
favors such components. In light of the finitary process soup's generality,
these results suggest a fundamental law of hierarchical systems: global
complexity requires local simplicity.
  Background: Duplication of genes is important for evolution of molecular
networks. Many authors have therefore considered gene duplication as a driving
force in shaping the topology of molecular networks. In particular it has been
noted that growth via duplication would act as an implicit way of preferential
attachment, and thereby provide the observed broad degree distributions of
molecular networks.
  Results: We extend current models of gene duplication and rewiring by
including directions and the fact that molecular networks are not a result of
unidirectional growth. We introduce upstream sites and downstream shapes to
quantify potential links during duplication and rewiring. We find that this in
itself generates the observed scaling of transcription factors for genome sites
in procaryotes. The dynamical model can generate a scale-free degree
distribution, p(k)&prop; 1/k^&gamma;, with exponent &gamma;=1 in the
non-growing case, and with &gamma;>1 when the network is growing.
  Conclusions: We find that duplication of genes followed by substantial
recombination of upstream regions could generate main features of genetic
regulatory networks. Our steady state degree distribution is however to broad
to be consistent with data, thereby suggesting that selective pruning acts as a
main additional constraint on duplicated genes. Our analysis shows that gene
duplication can only be a main cause for the observed broad degree
distributions, if there is also substantial recombinations between upstream
regions of genes.
  Significant fraction (98.5% in humans) of most animal genomes is non- coding
dark matter. Its largely unknown function (1-5) is related to programming
(rather than to spontaneous mutations) of accurate adaptation to rapidly
changing environment. Programmed adaptation to the same universal law for
non-competing animals from anaerobic yeast to human is revealed in the study of
their extensively quantified mortality (6-21). Adaptation of animals with
removed non-coding DNA fractions may specify their contribution to genomic
programming. Emergence of new adaptation programs and their (non-Mendelian)
heredity may be studied in antibiotic mini-extinctions (22-24). On a large
evolutionary scale rapid universal adaptation was vital for survival, and
evolved, in otherwise lethal for diverse species major mass extinctions
(25-28). Evolutionary and experimental data corroborate these conclusions
(6-21, 29-32). Universal law implies certain biological universality of diverse
species, thus quantifies applicability of animal models to humans). Genomic
adaptation programming calls for unusual approach to its study and implies
unanticipated perspectives, in particular, directed biological changes.
  The probability distributions for bending angles in double helical DNA
obtained in all-atom molecular dynamics simulations are compared with
theoretical predictions. The computed distributions remarkably agree with the
worm-like chain theory for double helices of one helical turn and longer, and
qualitatively differ from predictions of the semi-elastic chain model. The
computed data exhibit only small anomalies in the apparent flexibility of short
DNA and cannot account for the recently reported AFM data (Wiggins et al,
Nature nanotechnology 1, 137 (2006)). It is possible that the current atomistic
DNA models miss some essential mechanisms of DNA bending on intermediate length
scales. Analysis of bent DNA structures reveals, however, that the bending
motion is structurally heterogeneous and directionally anisotropic on the
intermediate length scales where the experimental anomalies were detected.
These effects are essential for interpretation of the experimental data and
they also can be responsible for the apparent discrepancy.
  Schroedinger's book 'What is Life?' is widely credited for having played a
crucial role in development of molecular and cellular biology. My essay
revisits the issues raised by this book from the modern perspective of
epigenetics and systems biology. I contrast two classes of potential mechanisms
of epigenetic stability: 'epigenetic templating' and 'systems biology'
approaches, and consider them from the point of view expressed by Schroedinger.
I also discuss how quantum entanglement, a nonclassical feature of quantum
mechanics, can help to address the 'problem of small numbers' that lead
Schroedinger to promote the idea of molecular code-script for explanation of
stability of biological order.
  We investigate dynamical systems characterized by a time series of distinct
semi-stable activity patterns, as they are observed in cortical neural activity
patterns. We propose and discuss a general mechanism allowing for an adiabatic
continuation between attractor networks and a specific adjoined transient-state
network, which is strictly dissipative. Dynamical systems with transient states
retain functionality when their working point is autoregulated; avoiding
prolonged periods of stasis or drifting into a regime of rapid fluctuations. We
show, within a continuous-time neural network model, that a single local
updating rule for online learning allows simultaneously (i) for information
storage via unsupervised Hebbian-type learning, (ii) for adaptive regulation of
the working point and (iii) for the suppression of runaway synaptic growth.
Simulation results are presented; the spontaneous breaking of time-reversal
symmetry and link symmetry are discussed.
  BACKGROUND: Many of the mutations accumulated by naturally evolving proteins
are neutral in the sense that they do not significantly alter a protein's
ability to perform its primary biological function. However, new protein
functions evolve when selection begins to favor other, "promiscuous" functions
that are incidental to a protein's biological role. If mutations that are
neutral with respect to a protein's primary biological function cause
substantial changes in promiscuous functions, these mutations could enable
future functional evolution.
  RESULTS: Here we investigate this possibility experimentally by examining how
cytochrome P450 enzymes that have evolved neutrally with respect to activity on
a single substrate have changed in their abilities to catalyze reactions on
five other substrates. We find that the enzymes have sometimes changed as much
as four-fold in the promiscuous activities. The changes in promiscuous
activities tend to increase with the number of mutations, and can be largely
rationalized in terms of the chemical structures of the substrates. The
activities on chemically similar substrates tend to change in a coordinated
fashion, potentially providing a route for systematically predicting the change
in one function based on the measurement of several others.
  CONCLUSIONS: Our work suggests that initially neutral genetic drift can lead
to substantial changes in protein functions that are not currently under
selection, in effect poising the proteins to more readily undergo functional
evolution should selection "ask new questions" in the future.
  The evolution of multicellular organisms from monocellular ancestors
represents one of the greatest advances of the history of life. The assembly of
such multicellular organisms requires signalling and response between cells:
over millions of years these signalling processes have become extremely
sophisticated and refined by evolution, such that study of modern organisms may
not be able to shed much light on the original ancient processes . Here we are
interested in determining how simple a signalling method can be, while still
achieving self-assembly. In 2D a coupled cellular automaton/differential
equation approach models organisms and chemotaxic chemicals, producing
spiralling aggregation. In 3D Lennard-Jones-like particles are used to
represent single cells, and their evolution in response to signalling is
followed by molecular dynamics. It is found that if a single cell is able to
emit a signal which induces others to move towards it, then a colony of
single-cell organisms can assemble into shapes as complex as a tower, a ball
atop a stalk, or a fast-moving slug. The similarity with the behaviour of
modern Dictyostelium slime molds signalling with cyclic adenosine monophosphate
(cAMP) is striking.
  In the simplest view of transcriptional regulation, the expression of a gene
is turned on or off by changes in the concentration of a transcription factor
(TF). We use recent data on noise levels in gene expression to show that it
should be possible to transmit much more than just one regulatory bit.
Realizing this optimal information capacity would require that the dynamic
range of TF concentrations used by the cell, the input/output relation of the
regulatory module, and the noise levels of binding and transcription satisfy
certain matching relations. This parameter-free prediction is in good agreement
with recent experiments on the Bicoid/Hunchback system in the early Drosophila
embryo, and this system achieves ~90% of its theoretical maximum information
transmission.
  Previously, we have identified the cytoplasmic zinc metalloprotease
insulin-degrading enzyme(IDE) in human tissues by an immunohistochemical method
involving no antigen retrieval (AR) by pressure cooking to avoid artifacts by
endogenous biotin exposure and a detection kit based on the labeled
streptavidin biotin (LSAB) method. Thereby, we also employed 3% hydrogen
peroxide(H2O2) for the inhibition of endogenous peroxidase activity and
incubated the tissue sections with the biotinylated secondary antibody at room
temperature (RT). We now add the immunohistochemical details that had led us to
this optimized procedure as they also bear a more general relevance when
demonstrating intracellular tissue antigens. Our most important result is that
endogenous peroxidase inhibition by 0.3% H2O2 coincided with an apparently
positive IDE staining in an investigated breast cancer specimen whereas
combining a block by 3% H2O2 with an incubation of the biotinylated secondary
antibody at RT, yet not at 37 degrees Celsius, revealed this specimen as almost
entirely IDE-negative. Our present data caution against three different
immunohistochemical pitfalls that might cause falsely positive results and
artifacts when using an LSAB- and peroxidase-based detection method: pressure
cooking for AR, insufficient quenching of endogenous peroxidases and heating of
tissue sections while incubating with biotinylated secondary antibodies.
  In recent years, several authors have used probabilistic graphical models to
learn expression modules and their regulatory programs from gene expression
data. Here, we demonstrate the use of the synthetic data generator SynTReN for
the purpose of testing and comparing module network learning algorithms. We
introduce a software package for learning module networks, called LeMoNe, which
incorporates a novel strategy for learning regulatory programs. Novelties
include the use of a bottom-up Bayesian hierarchical clustering to construct
the regulatory programs, and the use of a conditional entropy measure to assign
regulators to the regulation program nodes. Using SynTReN data, we test the
performance of LeMoNe in a completely controlled situation and assess the
effect of the methodological changes we made with respect to an existing
software package, namely Genomica. Additionally, we assess the effect of
various parameters, such as the size of the data set and the amount of noise,
on the inference performance. Overall, application of Genomica and LeMoNe to
simulated data sets gave comparable results. However, LeMoNe offers some
advantages, one of them being that the learning process is considerably faster
for larger data sets. Additionally, we show that the location of the regulators
in the LeMoNe regulation programs and their conditional entropy may be used to
prioritize regulators for functional validation, and that the combination of
the bottom-up clustering strategy with the conditional entropy-based assignment
of regulators improves the handling of missing or hidden regulators.
  The classical approach to protein folding inspired by statistical mechanics
avoids the high dimensional structure of the conformation space by using
effective coordinates. Here we introduce a network approach to capture the
statistical properties of the structure of conformation spaces. Conformations
are represented as nodes of the network, while links are transitions via
elementary rotations around a chemical bond. Self-avoidance of a polypeptide
chain introduces degree correlations in the conformation network, which in turn
lead to energy landscape correlations. Folding can be interpreted as a biased
random walk on the conformation network. We show that the folding pathways
along energy gradients organize themselves into scale free networks, thus
explaining previous observations made via molecular dynamics simulations. We
also show that these energy landscape correlations are essential for recovering
the observed connectivity exponent, which belongs to a different universality
class than that of random energy models. In addition, we predict that the
exponent and therefore the structure of the folding network fundamentally
changes at high temperatures, as verified by our simulations on the AK peptide.
  We have developed a linearization method to investigate the subthreshold
oscillatory behaviors in nonlinear autonomous systems. By considering firstly
the neuronal system as an example, we show that this theoretical approach can
predict quantitatively the subthreshold oscillatory activities, including the
damping coefficients and the oscillatory frequencies which are in good
agreement with those observed in experiments. Then we generalize the
linearization method to an arbitrary autonomous nonlinear system. The detailed
extension of this theoretical approach is also presented and further discussed.
  The widespread use of genetic testing in high risk pregnancies has created
strong interest in rapid and accurate molecular diagnostics for common
chromosomal aneuploidies. We show here that digital polymerase chain reaction
(dPCR) can be used for accurate measurement of trisomy 21 (Down's Syndrome),
the most common human aneuploidy. dPCR is generally applicable to any
aneuploidy, does not depend on allelic distribution or gender, and is able to
detect signals in the presence of mosaics or contaminating maternal DNA.
  We consider a probabilistic cellular automaton to analyze the stochastic
dynamics of a predator-prey system. The local rules are Markovian and are based
in the Lotka-Volterra model. The individuals of each species reside on the
sites of a lattice and interact with an unsymmetrical neighborhood. We look for
the effect of the space anisotropy in the characterization of the oscillations
of the species population densities. Our study of the probabilistic cellular
automaton is based on simple and pair mean-field approximations and explicitly
takes into account spatial anisotropy.
  Hayashi and Carthew (Nature 431 [2004], 647) have shown that the packing of
cone cells in the Drosophila retina resembles soap bubble packing, and that
changing E- and N-cadherin expression can change this packing, as well as cell
shape.
  The analogy with bubbles suggests that cell packing is driven by surface
minimization. We find that this assumption is insufficient to model the
experimentally observed shapes and packing of the cells based on their cadherin
expression. We then consider a model in which adhesion leads to a surface
increase, balanced by cell cortex contraction. Using the experimentally
observed distributions of E- and N-cadherin, we simulate the packing and cell
shapes in the wildtype eye. Furthermore, by changing only the corresponding
parameters, this model can describe the mutants with different numbers of
cells, or changes in cadherin expression.
  Invited contribution to "Quantum Aspects of Life", D. Abbott Ed. (World
Scientific, Singapore, 2007).
  The present paper introduces an original biofeedback system for improving
human balance control, whose underlying principle consists in providing
additional sensory information related to foot sole pressure distribution to
the user through a tongue-placed tactile output device. To assess the effect of
this biofeedback system on postural control during quiet standing, ten young
healthy adults were asked to stand as immobile as possible with their eyes
closed in two conditions of No-biofeedback and Biofeedback. Centre of foot
pressure (CoP) displacements were recorded using a force platform. Results
showed reduced CoP displacements in the Biofeedback relative to the
No-biofeedback condition. The present findings evidenced the ability of the
central nervous system to efficiently integrate an artificial plantar-based,
tongue-placed tactile biofeedback for controlling control posture during quiet
standing.
  A dynamical mean-field theory is developed to analyze stochastic single-cell
dynamics of gene expression. By explicitly taking account of nonequilibrium and
nonadiabatic features of the DNA state fluctuation, two-time correlation
functions and response functions of single-cell dynamics are derived. The
method is applied to a self-regulating gene to predict a rich variety of
dynamical phenomena such as anomalous increase of relaxation time and
oscillatory decay of correlations. Effective "temperature" defined as the ratio
of the correlation to the response in the protein number is small when the DNA
state change is frequent, while it grows large when the DNA state change is
infrequent, indicating the strong enhancement of noise in the latter case.
  We consider the asymptotic behaviour of the solution of one dimensional
stochastic differential equations and Langevin equations in periodic
backgrounds with zero average. We prove that in several such models, there is
generically a non vanishing asymptotic velocity, despite of the fact that the
average of the background is zero.
  This article reports about a novel extension of dissipative particle dynamics
(DPD) that allows the study of the collective dynamics of complex chemical and
structural systems in a spatially resolved manner with a combinatorially
complex variety of different system constituents. We show that introducing
multipolar interactions between particles leads to extended membrane structures
emerging in a self-organized manner and exhibiting both the necessary
mechanical stability for transport and fluidity so as to provide a
two-dimensional self-organizing dynamic reaction environment for kinetic
studies in the context of cell biology. We further show that the emergent
dynamics of extended membrane bound objects is in accordance with scaling laws
imposed by physics.
  We propose that genetic encoding of self-assembling components greatly
enhances the evolution of complex systems and provides an efficient platform
for inductive generalization, i.e. the inductive derivation of a solution to a
problem with a potentially infinite number of instances from a limited set of
test examples. We exemplify this in simulations by evolving scalable circuitry
for several problems. One of them, digital multiplication, has been intensively
studied in recent years, where hitherto the evolutionary design of only
specific small multipliers was achieved. The fact that this and other problems
can be solved in full generality employing self-assembly sheds light on the
evolutionary role of self-assembly in biology and is of relevance for the
design of complex systems in nano- and bionanotechnology.
  A basic question of protein structural studies is to which extent mutations
affect the stability. This question may be addressed starting from sequence
and/or from structure. In proteomics and genomics studies prediction of protein
stability free energy change (DDG) upon single point mutation may also help the
annotation process. The experimental SSG values are affected by uncertainty as
measured by standard deviations. Most of the DDG values are nearly zero (about
32% of the DDG data set ranges from -0.5 to 0.5 Kcal/mol) and both the value
and sign of DDG may be either positive or negative for the same mutation
blurring the relationship among mutations and expected DDG value. In order to
overcome this problem we describe a new predictor that discriminates between 3
mutation classes: destabilizing mutations (DDG<-0.5 Kcal/mol), stabilizing
mutations (DDG>0.5 Kcal/mol) and neutral mutations (-0.5<=DDG<=0.5 Kcal/mol).
In this paper a support vector machine starting from the protein sequence or
structure discriminates between stabilizing, destabilizing and neutral
mutations. We rank all the possible substitutions according to a three state
classification system and show that the overall accuracy of our predictor is as
high as 52% when performed starting from sequence information and 58% when the
protein structure is available, with a mean value correlation coefficient of
0.30 and 0.39, respectively. These values are about 20 points per cent higher
than those of a random predictor.
  We study a model ecosystem by means of dynamical techniques from disordered
systems theory. The model describes a set of species subject to competitive
interactions through a background of resources, which they feed upon.
Additionally direct competitive or co-operative interaction between species may
occur through a random coupling matrix. We compute the order parameters of the
system in a fixed point regime, and identify the onset of instability and
compute the phase diagram. We focus on the effects of variability of resources,
direct interaction between species, co-operation pressure and dilution on the
stability and the diversity of the ecosystem. It is shown that resources can be
exploited optimally only in absence of co-operation pressure or direct
interaction between species.
  Biologists are leading current research on genome characterization
(sequencing, alignment, transcription), providing a huge quantity of raw data
about many genome organisms. Extracting knowledge from this raw data is an
important process for biologists, using usually data mining approaches.
However, it is difficult to deals with these genomic information using actual
bioinformatics data mining tools, because data are heterogeneous, huge in
quantity and geographically distributed. In this paper, we present a new
approach between data mining and virtual reality visualization, called visual
data mining. Indeed Virtual Reality becomes ripe, with efficient display
devices and intuitive interaction in an immersive context. Moreover, biologists
use to work with 3D representation of their molecules, but in a desktop
context. We present a software solution, Genome3DExplorer, which addresses the
problem of genomic data visualization, of scene management and interaction.
This solution is based on a well-adapted graphical and interaction paradigm,
where local and global topological characteristics of data are easily visible,
on the contrary to traditional genomic database browsers, always focused on the
zoom and details level.
  A major challenge in analyzing animal behavior is to discover some underlying
simplicity in complex motor actions. Here we show that the space of shapes
adopted by the nematode C. elegans is surprisingly low dimensional, with just
four dimensions accounting for 95% of the shape variance, and we partially
reconstruct "equations of motion" for the dynamics in this space. These
dynamics have multiple attractors, and we find that the worm visits these in a
rapid and almost completely deterministic response to weak thermal stimuli.
Stimulus-dependent correlations among the different modes suggest that one can
generate more reliable behaviors by synchronizing stimuli to the state of the
worm in shape space. We confirm this prediction, effectively "steering" the
worm in real time.
  The self-propelled motion of microscopic bodies immersed in a fluid medium is
studied using molecular dynamics simulation. The advantage of the atomistic
approach is that the detailed level of description allows complete freedom in
specifying the swimmer design and its coupling with the surrounding fluid. A
series of two-dimensional swimming bodies employing a variety of propulsion
mechanisms -- motivated by biological and microrobotic designs -- is
investigated, including the use of moving limbs, changing body shapes and fluid
jets. The swimming efficiency and the nature of the induced, time-dependent
flow fields are found to differ widely among body designs and propulsion
mechanisms.
  Three-dimensional (3D) chromatin structure is closely related to genome
function, in particular transcription. However, the folding path of the
chromatin fiber in the interphase nucleus is unknown. Here, we systematically
measured the 3D physical distance between pairwise labeled genomic positions in
gene-dense, highly transcribed domains and gene-poor less active areas on
chromosomes 1 and 11 in G1 nuclei of human primary fibroblasts, using
fluorescence in situ hybridization. Interpretation of our results and those
published by others, based on polymer physics, shows that the folding of the
chromatin fiber can be described as a polymer in a globular state (GS),
maintained by intra-polymer attractive interactions that counteract
self-avoidance forces. The GS polymer model is able to describe chromatin
folding in as well the highly expressed domains as the lowly expressed ones,
indicating that they differ in Kuhn length and chromatin compaction. Each type
of genomic domain constitutes an ensemble of relatively compact globular
folding states, resulting in a considerable cellto- cell variation between
otherwise identical cells. We present evidence for different polymer folding
regimes of the chromatin fiber on the length scale of a few mega base pairs and
on that of complete chromosome arms (several tens of Mb). Our results present a
novel view on the folding of the chromatin fiber in interphase and open the
possibility to explore the nature of the intra-chromatin fiber interactions.
  The prediction of the three-dimensional native structure of proteins from the
knowledge of their amino acid sequence, known as the protein folding problem,
is one of the most important yet unsolved issues of modern science. Since the
conformational behaviour of flexible molecules is nothing more than a complex
physical problem, increasingly more physicists are moving into the study of
protein systems, bringing with them powerful mathematical and computational
tools, as well as the sharp intuition and deep images inherent to the physics
discipline. This work attempts to facilitate the first steps of such a
transition. In order to achieve this goal, we provide an exhaustive account of
the reasons underlying the protein folding problem enormous relevance and
summarize the present-day status of the methods aimed to solving it. We also
provide an introduction to the particular structure of these biological
heteropolymers, and we physically define the problem stating the assumptions
behind this (commonly implicit) definition. Finally, we review the 'special
flavor' of statistical mechanics that is typically used to study the
astronomically large phase spaces of macromolecules. Throughout the whole work,
much material that is found scattered in the literature has been put together
here to improve comprehension and to serve as a handy reference.
  We investigate the effects of risk perception in a simple model of epidemic
spreading. We assume that the perception of the risk of being infected depends
on the fraction of neighbors that are ill. The effect of this factor is to
decrease the infectivity, that therefore becomes a dynamical component of the
model. We study the problem in the mean-field approximation and by numerical
simulations for regular, random and scale-free networks.
  We show that for homogeneous and random networks, there is always a value of
perception that stops the epidemics. In the ``worst-case'' scenario of a
scale-free network with diverging input connectivity, a linear perception
cannot stop the epidemics; however we show that a non-linear increase of the
perception risk may lead to the extinction of the disease. This transition is
discontinuous, and is not predicted by the mean-field analysis.
  We report a first in modeling and simulation of the effects of the HIV
proteins on the (caspase dependent) apoptotic pathway in infected cells. This
work is novel and is an extension on the recent reports and clarifications on
the FAS apoptotic pathway from the literature. We have gathered most of the
reaction rates and initial conditions from the literature, the rest of the
constants have been computed by fitting our model to the experimental results
reported. Using the model obtained we have then run the simulations for the
infected memory T cells, called also latent T cells, which, at the moment,
represent the major obstacle to finding a cure for HIV. We can now report that
the infected latent T cells have an estimated lifetime of about 42 hours from
the moment they are re-activated. As far as we know this is the first result of
this type obtained for the infected memory T cells.
  We construct a unifying theory of geometric effects in mesoscopic stochastic
kinetics. We demonstrate that the adiabatic pump and the reversible ratchet
effects, as well as similar new phenomena in other domains, such as in
epidemiology, all follow from geometric phase contributions to the effective
action in the stochastic path integral representation of the moment generating
function. The theory provides the universal technique for identification,
prediction and calculation of pump-like phenomena in an arbitrary mesoscopic
stochastic framework.
  Random networks with specified degree distributions have been proposed as
realistic models of population structure, yet the problem of dynamically
modeling SIR-type epidemics in random networks remains complex. I resolve this
dilemma by showing how the SIR dynamics can be modeled with a system of three
nonlinear ODE's. The method makes use of the probability generating function
(PGF) formalism for representing the degree distribution of a random network
and makes use of network-centric quantities such as the number of edges in a
well-defined category rather than node-centric quantities such as the number of
infecteds or susceptibles. The PGF provides a simple means of translating
between network and node-centric variables and determining the epidemic
incidence at any time. The theory also provides a simple means of tracking the
evolution of the degree distribution among susceptibles or infecteds. The
equations are used to demonstrate the dramatic effects that the degree
distribution plays on the final size of an epidemic as well as the speed with
which it spreads through the population. Power law degree distributions are
observed to generate an almost immediate expansion phase yet have a smaller
final size compared to homogeneous degree distributions such as the Poisson.
The equations are compared to stochastic simulations, which show good agreement
with the theory. Finally, the dynamic equations provide an alternative way of
determining the epidemic threshold where large-scale epidemics are expected to
occur, and below which epidemic behavior is limited to finite-sized outbreaks.
  Contact patterns in populations fundamentally influence the spread of
infectious diseases. Current mathematical methods for epidemiological
forecasting on networks largely assume that contacts between individuals are
fixed, at least for the duration of an outbreak. In reality, contact patterns
may be quite fluid, with individuals frequently making and breaking social or
sexual relationships. Here we develop a mathematical approach to predicting
disease transmission on dynamic networks in which each individual has a
characteristic behavior (typical contact number), but the identities of their
contacts change in time. We show that dynamic contact patterns shape
epidemiological dynamics in ways that cannot be adequately captured in static
network models or mass-action models. Our new model interpolates smoothly
between static network models and mass-action models using a mixing parameter,
thereby providing a bridge between disparate classes of epidemiological models.
Using epidemiological and sexual contact data from an Atlanta high school, we
then demonstrate the utility of this method for forecasting and controlling
sexually transmitted disease outbreaks.
  We analytically and numerically study the probabilistic properties of
inverted and mirror repeats in model sequences of nucleic acids. We consider
both perfect and non-perfect repeats, i.e. repeats with mismatches and gaps.
The considered sequence models are independent identically distributed (i.i.d.)
sequences, Markov processes and long range sequences. We show that the number
of repeats in correlated sequences is significantly larger than in i.i.d.
sequences and that this discrepancy increases exponentially with the repeat
length for long range sequences.
  We present a model improving the two-angle model for interphase chromatin
(E2A model). This model takes into account the cylindrical shape of the histone
octamers, the H1 histones in front of the nucleosomes and the vertical distance
$d$ between the in and outgoing DNA strands. Factoring these chromatin features
in, one gets essential changes in the chromatin phase diagram: Not only the
shape of the excluded-volume borderline changes but also the vertical distance
$d$ has a dramatic influence on the forbidden area. Furthermore, we examined
the influence of H1 defects on the properties of the chromatin fiber. Thus we
present two possible strategies for chromatin compaction: The use of very dense
states in the phase diagram in the gaps in the excluded volume borderline or
missing H1 histones which can lead to very compact fibers. The chromatin fiber
might use both of these mechanisms to compact itself at least locally. Line
densities computed within the model coincident with the experimental values.
  We suggest a simple deterministic approximation for the growth of the
favoured-allele frequency during a selective sweep. Using this approximation we
introduce an accurate model for genetic hitch-hiking. Only when Ns < 10 (N is
the population size and s denotes the selection coefficient), are discrepancies
between our approximation and direct numerical simulations of a Moran model
noticeable. Our model describes the gene genealogies of a contiguous segment of
neutral loci close to the selected one, and it does not assume that the
selective sweep happens instantaneously. This enables us to compute SNP
distributions on the neutral segment without bias.
  Both short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) mediate the
repression of specific sequences of mRNA through the RNA interference pathway.
In the last years several experiments have supported the hypothesis that siRNAs
and miRNAs may be functionally interchangeable, at least in cultured cells. In
this work we verify that this hypothesis is also supported by a computational
evidence. We show that a method specifically trained to predict the activity of
the exogenous siRNAs assigns a high silencing level to experimentally
determined human miRNAs. This result not only supports the idea of siRNAs and
miRNAs equivalence but indicates that it is possible to use computational tools
developed using synthetic small interference RNAs to investigate endogenous
miRNAs.
  In this paper, we present a method to optimise rough set partition sizes, to
which rule extraction is performed on HIV data. The genetic algorithm
optimisation technique is used to determine the partition sizes of a rough set
in order to maximise the rough sets prediction accuracy. The proposed method is
tested on a set of demographic properties of individuals obtained from the
South African antenatal survey. Six demographic variables were used in the
analysis, these variables are; race, age of mother, education, gravidity,
parity, and age of father, with the outcome or decision being either HIV
positive or negative. Rough set theory is chosen based on the fact that it is
easy to interpret the extracted rules. The prediction accuracy of equal width
bin partitioning is 57.7% while the accuracy achieved after optimising the
partitions is 72.8%. Several other methods have been used to analyse the HIV
data and their results are stated and compared to that of rough set theory
(RST).
  A synfire chain is a simple neural network model which can propagate stable
synchronous spikes called a pulse packet and widely researched. However how
synfire chains coexist in one network remains to be elucidated. We have studied
the activity of a layered associative network of Leaky Integrate-and-Fire
neurons in which connection we embed memory patterns by the Hebbian Learning.
We analyzed their activity by the Fokker-Planck method. In our previous report,
when a half of neurons belongs to each memory pattern (memory pattern rate
$F=0.5$), the temporal profiles of the network activity is split into
temporally clustered groups called sublattices under certain input conditions.
In this study, we show that when the network is sparsely connected ($F<0.5$),
synchronous firings of the memory pattern are promoted. On the contrary, the
densely connected network ($F>0.5$) inhibit synchronous firings. The sparseness
and denseness also effect the basin of attraction and the storage capacity of
the embedded memory patterns. We show that the sparsely(densely) connected
networks enlarge(shrink) the basion of attraction and increase(decrease) the
storage capacity.
  Analyzing nonlinear conformational relaxation dynamics in elastic networks
corresponding to two classical motor proteins, we find that they respond by
well-defined internal mechanical motions to various initial deformations and
that these motions are robust against external perturbations. We show that this
behavior is not characteristic for random elastic networks. However, special
network architectures with such properties can be designed by evolutionary
optimization methods. Using them, an example of an artificial elastic network,
operating as a cyclic machine powered by ligand binding, is constructed.
  Molecular spiders are synthetic bio-molecular systems which have "legs" made
of short single-stranded segments of DNA. Spiders move on a surface covered
with single-stranded DNA segments complementary to legs. Different mappings are
established between various models of spiders and simple exclusion processes.
For spiders with simple gait and varying number of legs we compute the
diffusion coefficient; when the hopping is biased we also compute their
velocity.
  Synthetic bio-molecular spiders with "legs" made of single-stranded segments
of DNA can move on a surface which is also covered by single-stranded segments
of DNA complementary to the leg DNA. In experimental realizations, when a leg
detaches from a segment of the surface for the first time it alters that
segment, and legs subsequently bound to these altered segments more weakly.
Inspired by these experiments we investigate spiders moving along a
one-dimensional substrate, whose legs leave newly visited sites at a slower
rate than revisited sites. For a random walk (one-leg spider) the slowdown does
not effect the long time behavior. For a bipedal spider, however, the slowdown
generates an effective bias towards unvisited sites, and the spider behaves
similarly to the excited walk. Surprisingly, the slowing down of the spider at
new sites increases the diffusion coefficient and accelerates the growth of the
number of visited sites.
  It has been shown that differences in fecundity variance can influence the
probability of invasion of a genotype in a population, i.e. a genotype with
lower variance in offspring number can be favored in finite populations even if
it has a somewhat lower mean fitness than a competitor. In this paper,
Gillespie's results are extended to population genetic systems with explicit
age structure, where the demographic variance (variance in growth rate)
calculated in the work of Engen and colleagues is used as a generalization of
"variance in offspring number" to predict the interaction between deterministic
and random forces driving change in allele frequency. By calculating the
variance from the life history parameters, it is shown that selection against
variance in the growth rate will favor a genotypes with lower stochasticity in
age specific survival and fertility rates. A diffusion approximation for
selection and drift in a population with two genotypes with different life
history matrices (and therefore, different growth rates and demographic
variances) is derived and shown to be consistent with individual based
simulations. It is also argued that for finite populations, perturbation
analyses of both the growth rate and demographic variances may be necessary to
determine the sensitivity of "fitness" (broadly defined) to changes in the life
history parameters.
  Motivation: Similarity-measure based clustering is a crucial problem
appearing throughout scientific data analysis. Recently, a powerful new
algorithm called Affinity Propagation (AP) based on message-passing techniques
was proposed by Frey and Dueck \cite{Frey07}. In AP, each cluster is identified
by a common exemplar all other data points of the same cluster refer to, and
exemplars have to refer to themselves. Albeit its proved power, AP in its
present form suffers from a number of drawbacks. The hard constraint of having
exactly one exemplar per cluster restricts AP to classes of regularly shaped
clusters, and leads to suboptimal performance, {\it e.g.}, in analyzing gene
expression data. Results: This limitation can be overcome by relaxing the AP
hard constraints. A new parameter controls the importance of the constraints
compared to the aim of maximizing the overall similarity, and allows to
interpolate between the simple case where each data point selects its closest
neighbor as an exemplar and the original AP. The resulting soft-constraint
affinity propagation (SCAP) becomes more informative, accurate and leads to
more stable clustering. Even though a new {\it a priori} free-parameter is
introduced, the overall dependence of the algorithm on external tuning is
reduced, as robustness is increased and an optimal strategy for parameter
selection emerges more naturally. SCAP is tested on biological benchmark data,
including in particular microarray data related to various cancer types. We
show that the algorithm efficiently unveils the hierarchical cluster structure
present in the data sets. Further on, it allows to extract sparse gene
expression signatures for each cluster.
  With an automatic image analysis device, we studied the temporal distribution
of the locomotor activity of E. orientalis and E. vuilleti during 24 h, and
over several days to know whether the activity rhythms of these two Eupelmidae
play a role in their competitive interactions. The analysis of locomotor
activity rhythms of E. orientalis and E. vuilleti shows that the locomotor
activity of both species presents daily cyclic variations. These two Eupelmidae
have similar activity rhythms. Displacements of these parasitoids essentially
take place during the photophase. But the activity of E. vuilleti is earlier,
because the individuals of this species start their activity on average 4 to 5
h earlier than those of E. orientalis. E. vuilleti begins its displacements
several hours before the onset of lighting, whereas E. orientalis is active
only in the presence of the light. This shift of starting activity is thus a
factor allowing these concurrent species to minimize their interactions during
the cohabitation period in traditional granaries after the harvests of cowpea.
  There are many processes in biology in which mechanical forces are generated.
Force-bearing networks can transduce locally developed mechanical signals very
extensively over different parts of the cell or tissues. In this article we
conduct an overview of this kind of mechanical transduction, focusing in
particular on the multiple layers of complexity displayed by the mechanisms
that control and trigger the conversion of a mechanical signal into a
biochemical function. Single molecule methodologies, through their capability
to introduce the force in studies of biological processes in which mechanical
stresses are developed, are unveiling subtle intertwining mechanisms between
chemistry and mechanics and in particular are revealing how chemistry can
control mechanics. The possibility that chemistry interplays with mechanics
should be always considered in biochemical studies.
  In Chile and Uruguay,the gregarious Pteromalidae (Monoksa dorsiplana) has
been discovered emerging from seeds of the persistent pods of Acacia caven
attacked by the univoltin bruchid Pseudopachymeria spinipes. We investigated
the potential for mass rearing of this gregarious ectoparasitoid on an
alternative bruchid host, Callosobruchus maculatus, to use it against the
bruchidae of native and cultured species of Leguminosea seeds in South America.
The mass rearing of M.dorsiplana was carried out in a population cage where the
density of egg-laying females per infested seed was increased from 1:1 on the
first day to 5:1 on the last (fifth) day. Under these experimental conditions
egg-clutch size per host increased, and at the same time the mortality of eggs
laid also increased. The density of egg-laying females influenced the sex ratio
which tended towards a balance of sons and daughters,in contrast to the sex
ratio of a single egg-laying female per host (1 son to 7 daughters). The mean
weight of adults emerging from a parasitized host was negatively correlated
with the egg-clutch size, i.e., as egg-clutch size increased, adult weight
decreased. All these results show that mass rearing of the gregarious
ectoparasitoid M.dorsiplana was possible under laboratory conditions on an
alternative bruchid host C.maculatus. As M.dorsiplana is a natural enemy of
larval and pupal stages of bruchidae, the next step was to investigate whether
the biological control of bruchid C.maculatus was possible in an experimental
structure of stored beans.
  A phase field model for dealing with shape instabilities in fluid membrane
vesicles is presented. This model takes into account the Canham-Helfrich
bending energy with spontaneous curvature. A dynamic equation for the
phase-field is also derived. With this model it is possible to see the vesicle
shape deformation dynamically, when some external agent instabilizes the
membrane, for instance, inducing an inhomogeneous spontaneous curvature. The
numerical scheme used is detailed and some stationary shapes are shown together
with a shape diagram for vesicles of spherical topology and no spontaneous
curvature, in agreement with known results.
  A mathematical model of infiltrative tumour growth taking into account cell
proliferation, death and motility is considered. The model is formulated in
terms of local cell density and nutrient (oxygen) concentration. In the model
the rate of cell death depends on the local nutrient level. Thus heterogeneous
nutrient distribution in tissue affects tumour structure and development. The
existence of automodel solutions is demonstrated and their properties are
investigated. The results are compared to the properties of the
Kolmogorov-Petrovskii-Piskunov and Fisher equations. Influence of the nutrient
distribution on the autowave speed selection as well as on the relaxation to
automodel solution is demonstrated. The model adequately describes the data,
observed in experiments.
  The stability of the dynamical states characterized by a uniform firing rate
({\it splay states}) is analyzed in a network of globally coupled leaky
integrate-and-fire neurons. This is done by reducing the set of differential
equations to a map that is investigated in the limit of large network size. We
show that the stability of the splay state depends crucially on the ratio
between the pulse--width and the inter-spike interval. More precisely, the
spectrum of Floquet exponents turns out to consist of three components: (i) one
that coincides with the predictions of the mean-field analysis [Abbott-van
Vreesvijk, 1993]; (ii) a component measuring the instability of
"finite-frequency" modes; (iii) a number of "isolated" eigenvalues that are
connected to the characteristics of the single pulse and may give rise to
strong instabilities (the Floquet exponent being proportional to the network
size). Finally, as a side result, we find that the splay state can be stable
even for inhibitory coupling.
  The metabolic networks are very well characterized for a large set of
organisms, a unique case in within the large-scale biological networks. For
this reason they provide a a very interesting framework for the construction of
analytically tractable statistical mechanics models.
  In this paper we introduce a solvable model for the distribution of fluxes in
the metabolic network. We show that the effect of the topology on the
distribution of fluxes is to allow for large fluctuations of their values, a
fact that should have implications on the robustness of the system.
  We investigate the mechanisms of histone sliding and detachment with a
stochastic model that couples thermally-induced, passive histone sliding with
active motor-driven histone unwrapping. Analysis of a passive loop or twist
defect-mediated histone sliding mechanism shows that diffusional sliding is
enhanced as larger portions of the DNA is peeled off the histone. The mean
times to histone detachment and the mean distance traveled by the motor complex
prior to histone detachment are computed as functions of the intrinsic speed of
the motor. Fast motors preferentially induce detachment over sliding. However,
for a fixed motor speed, increasing the histone-DNA affinity (and thereby
decreasing the passive sliding rate) increases the mean distance traveled by
the motor.
  Background: Information processing in the brain requires large amounts of
metabolic energy, the spatial distribution of which is highly heterogeneous
reflecting complex activity patterns in the mammalian brain.
  Results: Here, it is found based on empirical data that, despite this
heterogeneity, the volume-specific cerebral glucose metabolic rate of many
different brain structures scales with brain volume with almost the same
exponent around -0.15. The exception is white matter, the metabolism of which
seems to scale with a standard specific exponent -1/4. The scaling exponents
for the total oxygen and glucose consumptions in the brain in relation to its
volume are identical and equal to $0.86\pm 0.03$, which is significantly larger
than the exponents 3/4 and 2/3 suggested for whole body basal metabolism on
body mass.
  Conclusions: These findings show explicitly that in mammals (i)
volume-specific scaling exponents of the cerebral energy expenditure in
different brain parts are approximately constant (except brain stem
structures), and (ii) the total cerebral metabolic exponent against brain
volume is greater than the much-cited Kleiber's 3/4 exponent. The
neurophysiological factors that might account for the regional uniformity of
the exponents and for the excessive scaling of the total brain metabolism are
discussed, along with the relationship between brain metabolic scaling and
computation.
  This paper presents a stability test for a class of interconnected nonlinear
systems motivated by biochemical reaction networks. One of the main results
determines global asymptotic stability of the network from the diagonal
stability of a "dissipativity matrix" which incorporates information about the
passivity properties of the subsystems, the interconnection structure of the
network, and the signs of the interconnection terms. This stability test
encompasses the "secant criterion" for cyclic networks presented in our
previous paper, and extends it to a general interconnection structure
represented by a graph. A second main result allows one to accommodate state
products. This extension makes the new stability criterion applicable to a
broader class of models, even in the case of cyclic systems. The new stability
test is illustrated on a mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade model,
and on a branched interconnection structure motivated by metabolic networks.
Finally, another result addresses the robustness of stability in the presence
of diffusion terms in a compartmental system made out of identical systems.
  The behavior of interacting populations typically displays irregular temporal
and spatial patterns that are difficult to reconcile with an underlying
deterministic dynamics. A classical example is the heterogeneous distribution
of plankton communities, which has been observed to be patchy over a wide range
of spatial and temporal scales. Here, we use plankton communities as prototype
systems to present theoretical approaches for the analysis of the combined
effects of turbulent advection and stochastic growth in the spatiotemporal
dynamics of the population. Incorporation of these two factors into
mathematical models brings an extra level of realism to the description and
leads to better agreement with experimental data than that of previously
proposed models based on reaction-diffusion equations.
  The equilibrium free energy landscape of an off-lattice model protein as a
function of an internal (reaction) coordinate is reconstructed from
out-of-equilibrium mechanical unfolding manipulations. This task is
accomplished via two independent methods: by employing an extended version of
the Jarzynski equality (EJE) and the protein inherent structures (ISs). In a
range of temperatures around the ``folding transition'' we find a good
quantitative agreement between the free energies obtained via EJE and IS
approaches. This indicates that the two methodologies are consistent and able
to reproduce equilibrium properties of the examined system. Moreover, for the
studied model the structural transitions induced by pulling can be related to
thermodynamical aspects of folding.
  From the spectral plot of the (normalized) graph Laplacian, the essential
qualitative properties of a network can be simultaneously deduced. Given a
class of empirical networks, reconstruction schemes for elucidating the
evolutionary dynamics leading to those particular data can then be developed.
This method is exemplified for protein-protein interaction networks. Traces of
their evolutionary history of duplication and divergence processes are
identified. In particular, we can identify typical specific features that
robustly distinguish protein-protein interaction networks from other classes of
networks, in spite of possible statistical fluctuations of the underlying data.
  Mechanistic home range models are important tools in modeling animal dynamics
in spatially-complex environments. We introduce a class of stochastic models
for animal movement in a habitat of varying preference. Such models interpolate
between spatially-implicit resource selection analysis (RSA) and
advection-diffusion models, possessing these two models as limiting cases. We
find a closed-form solution for the steady-state (equilibrium) probability
distribution u* using a factorization of the redistribution operator into
symmetric and diagonal parts. How space use is controlled by the preference
function w then depends on the characteristic width of the redistribution
kernel: when w changes rapidly compared to this width, u* ~ w, whereas on
global scales large compared to this width, u* ~ w^2. We analyse the behavior
at discontinuities in w which occur at habitat type boundaries. We simulate the
dynamics of space use given two-dimensional prey-availability data and explore
the effect of the redistribution kernel width. Our factorization allows such
numerical simulations to be done extremely fast; we expect this to aid the
computationally-intensive task of model parameter fitting and inverse modeling.
  In this paper we describe a new technique for the comparison of populations
of DNA strands. Comparison is vital to the study of ecological systems, at both
the micro and macro scales. Existing methods make use of DNA sequencing and
cloning, which can prove costly and time consuming, even with current
sequencing techniques. Our overall objective is to address questions such as:
(i) (Genome detection) Is a known genome sequence present, at least in part, in
an environmental sample? (ii) (Sequence query) Is a specific fragment sequence
present in a sample? (iii) (Similarity discovery) How similar in terms of
sequence content are two unsequenced samples? We propose a method involving
multiple filtering criteria that result in "pools" of DNA of high or very high
purity. Because our method is similar in spirit to hashing in computer science,
we call it DNA hash pooling. To illustrate this method, we describe protocols
using pairs of restriction enzymes. The in silico empirical results we present
reflect a sensitivity to experimental error. Our method will normally be
performed as a filtering step prior to sequencing in order to reduce the amount
of sequencing required (generally by a factor of 10 or more). Even as
sequencing becomes cheaper, an order of magnitude remains important.
  We investigate the hydrodynamic interactions between microorganisms swimming
at low Reynolds number. By considering simple model swimmers, and combining
analytic and numerical approaches, we investigate the time-averaged flow field
around a swimmer. At short distances the swimmer behaves like a pump. At large
distances the velocity field depends on whether the swimming stroke is
invariant under a combined time-reversal and parity transformation. We then
consider two swimmers and find that the interaction between them consists of
two parts; a dead term, independent of the motion of the second swimmer, which
takes the expected dipolar form and a live term resulting from the simultaneous
swimming action of both swimmers which does not. We argue that, in general, the
latter dominates. The swimmer--swimmer interaction is a complicated function of
their relative displacement, orientation and phase, leading to motion that can
be attractive, repulsive or oscillatory.
  We consider two seemingly very different self-assembly processes: formation
of viral capsids, and crystallization of sticky discs. At low temperatures,
assembly is ineffective, since there are many metastable disordered states,
which are a source of kinetic frustration. We use fluctuation-dissipation
ratios to extract information about the degree of this frustration. We show
that our analysis is a useful indicator of the long term fate of the system,
based on the early stages of assembly.
  We present a mathematical analysis of the effects of Hebbian learning in
random recurrent neural networks, with a generic Hebbian learning rule
including passive forgetting and different time scales for neuronal activity
and learning dynamics. Previous numerical works have reported that Hebbian
learning drives the system from chaos to a steady state through a sequence of
bifurcations. Here, we interpret these results mathematically and show that
these effects, involving a complex coupling between neuronal dynamics and
synaptic graph structure, can be analyzed using Jacobian matrices, which
introduce both a structural and a dynamical point of view on the neural network
evolution. Furthermore, we show that the sensitivity to a learned pattern is
maximal when the largest Lyapunov exponent is close to 0. We discuss how neural
networks may take advantage of this regime of high functional interest.
  A spontaneously active neural system that is capable of continual learning
should also be capable of homeostasis of both firing rate and connectivity.
Experimental evidence suggests that both types of homeostasis exist, and that
connectivity is maintained at a state that is optimal for information
transmission and storage. This state is referred to as the critical state. We
present a simple stochastic computational Hebbian learning model that
incorporates both firing rate and critical homeostasis, and we explore its
stability and connectivity properties. We also examine the behavior of our
model with a simulated seizure and with simulated acute deafferentation. We
argue that a neural system that is more highly connected than the critical
state (i.e., one that is "supercritical") is epileptogenic. Based on our
simulations, we predict that the post-seizural and post-deafferentation states
should be supercritical and epileptogenic. Furthermore, interventions that
boost spontaneous activity should be protective against epileptogenesis.
  In this paper, we present a spatial version of phytoplankton-zooplankton
model that includes some important factors such as external periodic forces,
noise, and diffusion processes. The spatially extended
phytoplankton-zooplankton system is from the original study by Scheffer [M
Scheffer, Fish and nutrients interplay determines algal biomass: a minimal
model, Oikos \textbf{62} (1991) 271-282]. Our results show that the spatially
extended system exhibit a resonant patterns and frequency-locking phenomena.
The system also shows that the noise and the external periodic forces play a
constructive role in the Scheffer's model: first, the noise can enhance the
oscillation of phytoplankton species' density and format a large clusters in
the space when the noise intensity is within certain interval. Second, the
external periodic forces can induce 4:1 and 1:1 frequency-locking and spatially
homogeneous oscillation phenomena to appear. Finally, the resonant patterns are
observed in the system when the spatial noises and external periodic forces are
both turned on. Moreover, we found that the 4:1 frequency-locking transform
into 1:1 frequency-locking when the noise intensity increased. In addition to
elucidating our results outside the domain of Turing instability, we provide
further analysis of Turing linear stability with the help of the numerical
calculation by using the Maple software. Significantly, oscillations are
enhanced in the system when the noise term presents. These results indicate
that the oceanic plankton bloom may partly due to interplay between the
stochastic factors and external forces instead of deterministic factors. These
results also may help us to understand the effects arising from undeniable
subject to random fluctuations in oceanic plankton bloom.
  Intracellular recordings of cortical neurons in vivo display intense
subthreshold membrane potential (Vm) activity. The power spectral density (PSD)
of the Vm displays a power-law structure at high frequencies (>50 Hz) with a
slope of about -2.5. This type of frequency scaling cannot be accounted for by
traditional models, as either single-compartment models or models based on
reconstructed cell morphologies display a frequency scaling with a slope close
to -4. This slope is due to the fact that the membrane resistance is
"short-circuited" by the capacitance for high frequencies, a situation which
may not be realistic. Here, we integrate non-ideal capacitors in cable
equations to reflect the fact that the capacitance cannot be charged
instantaneously. We show that the resulting "non-ideal" cable model can be
solved analytically using Fourier transforms. Numerical simulations using a
ball-and-stick model yield membrane potential activity with similar frequency
scaling as in the experiments. We also discuss the consequences of using
non-ideal capacitors on other cellular properties such as the transmission of
high frequencies, which is boosted in non-ideal cables, or voltage attenuation
in dendrites. These results suggest that cable equations based on non-ideal
capacitors should be used to capture the behavior of neuronal membranes at high
frequencies.
  In this work we develop a microscopic physical model of early evolution,
where phenotype,organism life expectancy, is directly related to genotype, the
stability of its proteins in their native conformations which can be determined
exactly in the model. Simulating the model on a computer, we consistently
observe the Big Bang scenario whereby exponential population growth ensues as
soon as favorable sequence-structure combinations (precursors of stable
proteins) are discovered. Upon that, random diversity of the structural space
abruptly collapses into a small set of preferred proteins. We observe that
protein folds remain stable and abundant in the population at time scales much
greater than mutation or organism lifetime, and the distribution of the
lifetimes of dominant folds in a population approximately follows a power law.
The separation of evolutionary time scales between discovery of new folds and
generation of new sequences gives rise to emergence of protein families and
superfamilies whose sizes are power-law distributed, closely matching the same
distributions for real proteins. On the population level we observe emergence
of species, subpopulations which carry similar genomes. Further we present a
simple theory that relates stability of evolving proteins to the sizes of
emerging genomes. Together, these results provide a microscopic first
principles picture of how first gene families developed in the course of early
evolution
  Molecular biology is a nanotechnology that works--it has worked for billions
of years and in an amazing variety of circumstances. At its core is a system
for acquiring, processing and communicating information that is universal, from
viruses and bacteria to human beings. Advances in genetics and experience in
designing computers have taken us to a stage where we can understand the
optimisation principles at the root of this system, from the availability of
basic building blocks to the execution of tasks. The languages of DNA and
proteins are argued to be the optimal solutions to the information processing
tasks they carry out. The analysis also suggests simpler predecessors to these
languages, and provides fascinating clues about their origin. Obviously, a
comprehensive unraveling of the puzzle of life would have a lot to say about
what we may design or convert ourselves into.
  This paper develops a mathematical model describing the influence that
conjugation-mediated Horizontal Gene Transfer (HGT) has on the
mutation-selection balance in an asexually reproducing population of
unicellular, prokaryotic organisms. It is assumed that mutation-selection
balance is reached in the presence of a fixed background concentration of
antibiotic, to which the population must become resistant in order to survive.
We analyze the behavior of the model in the limit of low and high
antibiotic-induced first-order death rate constants, and find that the highest
mean fitness is obtained at low rates of bacterial conjugation. As the rate of
conjugation crosses a threshold, the mean fitness decreases to a minimum, and
then rises asymptotically to a limiting value as the rate of conjugation
becomes infinitely large. However, this limiting value is smaller than the mean
fitness obtained in the limit of low conjugation rate. This dependence of the
mean fitness on the conjugation rate is fairly small for the parameter ranges
we have considered, and disappears as the first-order death rate constant due
to the presence of antibiotic approaches zero. For large values of the
antibiotic death rate constant, we have obtained an analytical solution for the
behavior of the mean fitness that agrees well with the results of simulations.
The results of this paper suggest that conjugation-mediated HGT has a slightly
deleterious effect on the mean fitness of a population at mutation-selection
balance. Therefore, we argue that HGT confers a selective advantage by allowing
for faster adaptation to a new or changing environment. The results of this
paper are consistent with the observation that HGT can be promoted by
environmental stresses on a population.
  The problem of reconstructing and identifying intracellular protein signaling
and biochemical networks is of critical importance in biology today. We sought
to develop a mathematical approach to this problem using, as a test case, one
of the most well-studied and clinically important signaling networks in biology
today, the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) driven signaling cascade.
More specifically, we suggest a method, augmented sparse reconstruction, for
the identification of links among nodes of ordinary differential equation (ODE)
networks from a small set of trajectories with different initial conditions.
Our method builds a system of representation by using a collection of integrals
of all given trajectories and by attenuating block of terms in the
representation itself. The system of representation is then augmented with
random vectors, and minimization of the 1-norm is used to find sparse
representations for the dynamical interactions of each node. Augmentation by
random vectors is crucial, since sparsity alone is not able to handle the large
error-in-variables in the representation. Augmented sparse reconstruction
allows to consider potentially very large spaces of models and it is able to
detect with high accuracy the few relevant links among nodes, even when
moderate noise is added to the measured trajectories. After showing the
performance of our method on a model of the EGFR protein network, we sketch
briefly the potential future therapeutic applications of this approach.
  Classical population genetics a priori assigns fitness to alleles without
considering molecular or functional properties of proteins that these alleles
encode. Here we study population dynamics in a model where fitness can be
inferred from physical properties of proteins under a physiological assumption
that loss of stability of any protein encoded by an essential gene confers a
lethal phenotype. Accumulation of mutations in organisms containing Gamma genes
can then be represented as diffusion within the Gamma dimensional hypercube
with adsorbing boundaries which are determined, in each dimension, by loss of a
protein stability and, at higher stability, by lack of protein sequences.
Solving the diffusion equation whose parameters are derived from the data on
point mutations in proteins, we determine a universal distribution of protein
stabilities, in agreement with existing data. The theory provides a fundamental
relation between mutation rate, maximal genome size and thermodynamic response
of proteins to point mutations. It establishes a universal speed limit on rate
of molecular evolution by predicting that populations go extinct (via lethal
mutagenesis) when mutation rate exceeds approximately 6 mutations per essential
part of genome per replication for mesophilic organisms and 1 to 2 mutations
per genome per replication for thermophilic ones. Further, our results suggest
that in absence of error correction, modern RNA viruses and primordial genomes
must necessarily be very short. Several RNA viruses function close to the
evolutionary speed limit while error correction mechanisms used by DNA viruses
and non-mutant strains of bacteria featuring various genome lengths and
mutation rates have brought these organisms universally about 1000 fold below
the natural speed limit.
  The number of fixed mutations accumulated in an evolving population often
displays a variance that is significantly larger than the mean (the
overdispersed molecular clock). By examining a generic evolutionary process on
a neutral network of high-fitness genotypes, we establish a formalism for
computing all cumulants of the full probability distribution of accumulated
mutations in terms of graph properties of the neutral network, and use the
formalism to prove overdispersion of the molecular clock. We further show that
significant overdispersion arises naturally in evolution when the neutral
network is highly sparse, exhibits large global fluctuations in neutrality, and
small local fluctuations in neutrality. The results are also relevant for
elucidating the topological structure of a neutral network from empirical
measurements of the substitution process.
  In a recent paper, Marr, Muller-Linow and Hutt [Phys. Rev. E 75, 041917
(2007)] investigate an artificial dynamic system on metabolic networks. They
find a less complex time evolution of this dynamic system in real networks,
compared to networks of reference models. The authors argue that this suggests
that metabolic network structure is a major factor behind the stability of
biochemical steady states. We reanalyze the same kind of data using a dynamic
system modeling actual reaction kinetics. The conclusions about stability, from
our analysis, are inconsistent with those of Marr et al. We argue that this
issue calls for a more detailed type of modeling.
  Recently Supernova 2006gy was noted as the most luminous ever recorded, with
a total radiated energy of ~10^44 Joules. It was proposed that the progenitor
may have been a massive evolved star similar to eta Carinae, which resides in
our own galaxy at a distance of about 2.3 kpc. eta Carinae appears ready to
detonate. Although it is too distant to pose a serious threat as a normal
supernova, and given its rotation axis is unlikely to produce a Gamma-Ray Burst
oriented toward the Earth, eta Carinae is about 30,000 times nearer than
2006gy, and we re-evaluate it as a potential superluminous supernova. We find
that given the large ratio of emission in the optical to the X-ray, atmospheric
effects are negligible. Ionization of the atmosphere and concomitant ozone
depletion are unlikely to be important. Any cosmic ray effects should be spread
out over ~10^4 y, and similarly unlikely to produce any serious perturbation to
the biosphere. We also discuss a new possible effect of supernovae, endocrine
disruption induced by blue light near the peak of the optical spectrum. This is
a possibility for nearby supernovae at distances too large to be considered
"dangerous" for other reasons. However, due to reddening and extinction by the
interstellar medium, eta Carinae is unlikely to trigger such effects to any
significant degree.
  Recent in vitro data show that neurons respond to input variance with varying
sensitivities. Here, we demonstrate that Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) neurons can
operate in two computational regimes, one that is more sensitive to input
variance (differentiating) and one that is less sensitive (integrating). A
boundary plane in the 3D conductance space separates these two regimes. For a
reduced HH model, this plane can be derived analytically from the V nullcline,
thus suggesting a means of relating biophysical parameters to neural
computation by analyzing the neuron's dynamical system.
  In this paper we apply new geometric and combinatorial methods to the study
of phylogenetic mixtures. The focus of the geometric approach is to describe
the geometry of phylogenetic mixture distributions for the two state random
cluster model, which is a generalization of the two state symmetric (CFN)
model. In particular, we show that the set of mixture distributions forms a
convex polytope and we calculate its dimension; corollaries include a simple
criterion for when a mixture of branch lengths on the star tree can mimic the
site pattern frequency vector of a resolved quartet tree. Furthermore, by
computing volumes of polytopes we can clarify how ``common'' non-identifiable
mixtures are under the CFN model. We also present a new combinatorial result
which extends any identifiability result for a specific pair of trees of size
six to arbitrary pairs of trees. Next we present a positive result showing
identifiability of rates-across-sites models. Finally, we answer a question
raised in a previous paper concerning ``mixed branch repulsion'' on trees
larger than quartet trees under the CFN model.
  Mortality, birth rates and retirement play a major role in demographic
changes. In most cases, mortality rates decreased in the past century without
noticeable decrease in fertility rates, this leads to a significant increase in
population growth. In many poor countries like Palestinian territories the
number of births has fallen and the life expectancy increased.
  In this article we concentrate on measuring, analyzing and extrapolating the
age structure in Palestine a few decades ago into future. A Fortran program has
been designed and used for the simulation and analysis of our statistical data.
This study of demographic change in Palestine has shown that Palestinians will
have in future problems as the strongest age cohorts are the above-60-year
olds. We therefore recommend the increase of both the retirement age and women
employment.
  A novel approach to protein multiple sequence alignment is discussed:
substantially this method counterparts with substitution matrix based methods
(like Blosum or PAM based methods), and implies a more deterministic approach
to chemical/physical sub-grouping of amino acids . Amino acids (aa) are divided
into sub-groups with successive derivations, that result in a clustering based
on the considered property. The properties can be user defined or chosen
between default schemes, like those used in the analysis described here.
Starting from an initial set of the 20 naturally occurring amino acids, they
are successively divided on the basis of their polarity/hydrophobic index, with
increasing resolution up to four level of subdivision. Other schemes of
subdivision are possible: in this thesis work it was employed also a scheme
based on physical/structural properties (solvent exposure, lateral chain
mobility and secondary structure tendency), that have been compared to the
chemical scheme with testing purposes. In the method described in this chapter,
the total score for each position in the alignment accounts for different
degree of similarity between amino acids. The scoring value result form the
contribution of each level of selectivity for every individual property
considered. Simply the method (called M_Al) analyse the n sequence alignment
position per position and assigns a score which have contributes by aa identity
plus a composed valuation of the chemical or of the structural affinity between
the n aligned amino acids. This method has been implemented in a series of
programs written in python language; these programs have been tested in some
biological cases, with benchmark purposes.
  Ni\'eb\'e is a food leguminous plant cultivated in tropical Africa for its
seeds rich in proteins. The main problem setted by its production is the
conservation of harvests. In the fields as in the stocks, the seeds are
destroyed by pests (bruchids). These bruchids are always associated with
several entomophagous species of hymenoptera. Four entomophagous species were
listed : an egg parasitoid (U lariophaga Stephan), and three solitary larval
and pupal ectoparasitoids (D. Basalis Rondoni, Pteromalidae; E. vuilleti
Crawford and E. orientalis Crawford, Eupelmidae). The survey of the populations
shows that at the beginning of storage, E orientalis is the most abundant
specie (72 %) whereas E. vuilleti and D. Basalis respectively represent 12 %
and 16 % of the hymenoptera. During storage, the E orientalis population
decreases gradually and it disappears completely in less than two months after
the beginning of storage. E. Vuilleti population becomes gradually more
important than D. basalis population which regress until less than 10 % of the
emerging parasitoids. E vuilleti adopts ovicide and larvicide behaviour against
D. Basalis. This behaviour explains its population regression inside granaries.
If the aggressive behaviour of this Eupelmidae is a constant, that could also
explain the disappearance of E orientalis. However if this species is
maintained in stocks, it would be an effective control agent of bruchids
according to their parasitic capacities. This study shows that ovicide and
larvicide behaviour of E vuilleti is not expressed against E orientalis. When
the females have exclusively the hosts already parasitized by E orientalis,
they do not lay eggs. The disappearance of E orientalis could not thus be
explained by the presence of E. vuilleti.
  Selective control in a population is the ability to control a member of the
population while leaving the other members relatively unaffected. The concept
of selective control is developed using cell death or apoptosis in
heterogeneous cell populations as an example. Apoptosis signaling in
heterogeneous cells is described by an ensemble of gene networks with identical
topology but different link strengths. Selective control depends on the
statistics of signaling in the ensemble of networks and we analyse the effects
of superposition, non-linearity and feedback on these statistics. Parallel
pathways promote normal statistics while series pathways promote skew
distributions which in the most extreme cases become log-normal. We also show
that feedback and non-linearity can produce bimodal signaling statistics, as
can discreteness and non-linearity. Two methods for optimizing selective
control are presented. The first is an exhaustive search method and the second
is a linear programming based approach. Though control of a single gene in the
signaling network yields little selectivity, control of a few genes typically
yields higher levels of selectivity. The statistics of gene combinations
susceptible to selective control is studied and is used to identify general
control strategies. We found that selectivity is promoted by acting on the
least sensitive nodes in the case of weak populations, while selective control
of robust populations is optimized through perturbations of more sensitive
nodes. High throughput experiments with heterogeneous cell lines could be
designed in an analogous manner, with the further possibility of incorporating
the selectivity optimization process into a closed-loop control system.
  Bacterial chemotaxis in Escherichia coli is a canonical system for the study
of signal transduction. A remarkable feature of this system is the coexistence
of precise adaptation in population with large fluctuating cellular behavior in
single cells (Korobkova et al. 2004, Nature, 428, 574). Using a stochastic
model, we found that the large behavioral variability experimentally observed
in non-stimulated cells is a direct consequence of the architecture of this
adaptive system. Reversible covalent modification cycles, in which methylation
and demethylation reactions antagonistically regulate the activity of
receptor-kinase complexes, operate outside the region of first-order kinetics.
As a result, the receptor-kinase that governs cellular behavior exhibits a
sigmoidal activation curve. This curve simultaneously amplifies the inherent
stochastic fluctuations in the system and lengthens the relaxation time in
response to stimulus. Because stochastic fluctuations cause large behavioral
variability and the relaxation time governs the average duration of runs in
response to small stimuli, cells with the greatest fluctuating behavior also
display the largest chemotactic response. Finally, Large-scale simulations of
digital bacteria suggest that the chemotaxis network is tuned to simultaneously
optimize the random spread of cells in absence of nutrients and the cellular
response to gradients of attractant.
  Biological networks have evolved to be highly functional within uncertain
environments while remaining extremely adaptable. One of the main contributors
to the robustness and evolvability of biological networks is believed to be
their modularity of function, with modules defined as sets of genes that are
strongly interconnected but whose function is separable from those of other
modules. Here, we investigate the in silico evolution of modularity and
robustness in complex artificial metabolic networks that encode an increasing
amount of information about their environment while acquiring ubiquitous
features of biological, social, and engineering networks, such as scale-free
edge distribution, small-world property, and fault-tolerance. These networks
evolve in environments that differ in their predictability, and allow us to
study modularity from topological, information-theoretic, and gene-epistatic
points of view using new tools that do not depend on any preconceived notion of
modularity. We find that for our evolved complex networks as well as for the
yeast protein-protein interaction network, synthetic lethal pairs consist
mostly of redundant genes that lie close to each other and therefore within
modules, while knockdown suppressor pairs are farther apart and often straddle
modules, suggesting that knockdown rescue is mediated by alternative pathways
or modules. The combination of network modularity tools together with genetic
interaction data constitutes a powerful approach to study and dissect the role
of modularity in the evolution and function of biological networks.
  This review presents the elastic theory of low-dimensional (one- and
two-dimensional) continua and its applications in bio- and nano-structures.
First, the curve and surface theory, as the geometric representation of the
low-dimensional continua, is briefly described through Cartan moving frame
method. The elastic theory of Kirchhoff rod, Helfrich rod, bending-soften rod,
fluid membrane, and solid shell is revisited. Secondly, the application and
availability of the elastic theory of low-dimensional continua in
bio-structures, including short DNA rings, lipid membranes, and cell membranes,
are discussed. The kink stability of short DNA rings is addressed by using the
theory of Kirchhoff rod, Helfrich rod, and bending-soften rod. The lipid
membranes obey the theory of fluid membrane. A cell membrane is simplified as a
composite shell of lipid bilayer and membrane skeleton, which is a little
similar to the solid shell. It is found that the membrane skeleton enhances
highly the mechanical stability of cell membranes. Thirdly, the application and
availability of the elastic theory of low-dimensional continua in
nano-structures, including graphene and carbon nanotubes, are discussed. A
revised Lenosky lattice model is proposed based on the local density
approximation. Its continuum form up to the second order terms of curvatures
and strains is the same as the free energy of 2D solid shells. Several typical
mechanical properties of carbon nanotubes are revisited and investigated based
on this continuum form. It is possible to avoid introducing the controversial
concepts, the Young's modulus and thickness of graphene and single-walled
carbon nanotubes, with this continuum form.
  Structural fluctuations in the thermal equilibrium of the kinesin motor
domain are studied using a lattice protein model with Go interactions. By means
of the multi-self-overlap ensemble (MSOE) Monte Carlo method and the principal
component analysis (PCA), the free-energy landscape is obtained. It is shown
that kinesins have two subdomains that exhibit partial folding/unfolding at
functionally important regions: one is located around the nucleotide binding
site and the other includes the main microtubule binding site. These subdomains
are consistent with structural variability that was reported recently based on
experimentally-obtained structures. On the other hand, such large structural
fluctuations have not been captured by B-factor or normal mode analyses. Thus,
they are beyond the elastic regime, and it is essential to take into account
chain connectivity for studying the function of kinesins.
  We derive rigorous results describing the asymptotic dynamics of a discrete
time model of spiking neurons introduced in \cite{BMS}. Using symbolic dynamic
techniques we show how the dynamics of membrane potential has a one to one
correspondence with sequences of spikes patterns (``raster plots''). Moreover,
though the dynamics is generically periodic, it has a weak form of initial
conditions sensitivity due to the presence of a sharp threshold in the model
definition. As a consequence, the model exhibits a dynamical regime
indistinguishable from chaos in numerical experiments.
  We present the spectrum of the (normalized) graph Laplacian as a systematic
tool for the investigation of networks, and we describe basic properties of
eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. Processes of graph formation like motif joining
or duplication leave characteristic traces in the spectrum. This can suggest
hypotheses about the evolution of a graph representing biological data. To this
data, we analyze several biological networks in terms of rough qualitative data
of their spectra.
  It is common to use reciprocal best hits, also known as a boomerang
criterion, for determining orthology between sequences. The best hits may be
found by blast, or by other more recently developed algorithms. Previous work
seems to have assumed that reciprocal best hits is a sufficient but not
necessary condition for orthology. In this article, I explain why reciprocal
best hits cannot logically be a sufficient condition for orthology. If
reciprocal best hits is neither sufficient nor necessary for orthology, it
would seem worthwhile to examine further the logical foundations of some
unsupervised algorithms that are used to identify orthologs.
  Transcription networks, and other directed networks can be characterized by
some topological observables such as for example subgraph occurrence (network
motifs). In order to perform such kind of analysis, it is necessary to be able
to generate suitable randomized network ensembles. Typically, one considers
null networks with the same degree sequences of the original ones. The commonly
used algorithms sometimes have long convergence times, and sampling problems.
We present here an alternative, based on a variant of the importance sampling
Montecarlo developed by Chen et al. [1].
  The binding neuron model is inspired by numerical simulation of
Hodgkin-Huxley-type point neuron, as well as by the leaky integrate-and-fire
model. In the binding neuron, the trace of an input is remembered for a fixed
period of time after which it disappears completely. This is in the contrast
with the above two models, where the postsynaptic potentials decay
exponentially and can be forgotten only after triggering. The finiteness of
memory in the binding neuron allows one to construct fast recurrent networks
for computer modeling. Recently, the finiteness is utilized for exact
mathematical description of the output stochastic process if the binding neuron
is driven with the Poissonian input stream. In this paper, the simplest
networking is considered for binding neuron. Namely, it is expected that every
output spike of single neuron is immediately fed into its input. For this
construction, externally fed with Poissonian stream, the output stream is
characterized in terms of interspike interval probability density distribution
if the binding neuron has threshold 2. For higher thresholds, the distribution
is calculated numerically. The distributions are compared with those found for
binding neuron without feedback, and for leaky integrator. Sample distributions
for leaky integrator with feedback are calculated numerically as well. It is
oncluded that even the simplest networking can radically alter spikng
statistics. Information condensation at the level of single neuron is
discussed.
  The persistent pods of the tree, Acacia caven, that do not fall from the tree
provide opportunities for the appearance of a diverse group of insects the
following season. Such pods collected during the spring of 1999 in Chile were
indehiscent with highly sclerified pod walls. In contrast, persistent pods
collected in Uruguay after a wet winter and spring (2002) were partially
dehiscent, inducing the deterioration of the woody pods, and consequently
exposing the seeds. These persistent pods are a natural refuge for insect
species, namely two bruchid beetles (Pseudopachymeria spinipes, Stator
furcatus), one scolytidae (Dendroctonus sp), lepidopterous larvae, ant colonies
(Camponotus sp),one species of oophagous parasitoid (Uscana espinae group
senex), the gregarious larval-pupae parasitoid Monoksa dorsiplana
(Pteromalidae) and two species of Horismenus spp. (Eulophidae). The patriline
of M. dorsiplana is frequently formed by 1 son +7 daughters.
  A coarse-grained variational model is used to investigate the polymer
dynamics of barrier crossing for a diverse set of two-state folding proteins.
The model gives reliable folding rate predictions provided excluded volume
terms that induce minor structural cooperativity are included in the
interaction potential. In general, the cooperative folding routes have sharper
interfaces between folded and unfolded regions of the folding nucleus and
higher free energy barriers. The calculated free energy barriers are strongly
correlated with native topology as characterized by contact order. Increasing
the rigidity of the folding nucleus changes the local structure of the
transition state ensemble non-uniformly across the set of protein studied.
Neverthless, the calculated prefactors k0 are found to be relatively uniform
across the protein set, with variation in 1/k0 less than a factor of five. This
direct calculation justifies the common assumption that the prefactor is
roughly the same for all small two-state folding proteins. Using the barrier
heights obtained from the model and the best fit monomer relaxation time 30ns,
we find that 1/k0 (1-5)us (with average 1/k0 4us). This model can be extended
to study subtle aspects of folding such as the variation of the folding rate
with stability or solvent viscosity, and the onset of downhill folding.
  Pathways are integral to systems biology. Their classical representation has
proven useful but is inconsistent in the meaning assigned to each arrow (or
edge) and inadvertently implies the isolation of one pathway from another.
Conversely, modern high-throughput experiments give rise to standardized
networks facilitating topological calculations. Combining these perspectives,
we can embed classical pathways within large-scale networks and thus
demonstrate the crosstalk between them. As more diverse types of
high-throughput data become available, we can effectively merge both
perspectives, embedding pathways simultaneously in multiple networks. However,
the original problem still remains - the current edge representation is
inadequate to accurately convey all the information in pathways. Therefore, we
suggest that a standardized, well-defined, edge ontology is necessary and
propose a prototype here, as a starting point for reaching this goal.
  In this paper, we consider the statistical analysis of a protein interaction
network. We propose a Bayesian model that uses a hierarchy of probabilistic
assumptions about the way proteins interact with one another in order to: (i)
identify the number of non-observable functional modules; (ii) estimate the
degree of membership of proteins to modules; and (iii) estimate typical
interaction patterns among the functional modules themselves. Our model
describes large amount of (relational) data using a relatively small set of
parameters that we can reliably estimate with an efficient inference algorithm.
We apply our methodology to data on protein-to-protein interactions in
saccharomyces cerevisiae to reveal proteins' diverse functional roles. The case
study provides the basis for an overview of which scientific questions can be
addressed using our methods, and for a discussion of technical issues.
  This work is a study of the inter-relationship between parameters that
principally affect metal up-take in the plant. The relationships between the
concentration of metal in the growth medium, Cs, the concentration of metal
absorbed by the plant, Cp, and the total biomass achieved, M, all of which are
factors relevant to the efficiency of phytoremediation of the plant, have been
investigated via the macro-physiological response of Brassica juncea seedlings
to Ni(II) stress. The factorial growth experiments treated the Ni(II)
concentration in the agar gel and the diurnal light quanta (DLQ) as
independently variable parameters. Observations included the evidence of light
enhancement of Ni toxicity at the root as well as at the whole plant level, the
shoot mass index as a possible indicator of shoot metal sequestration in B.
juncea, the logarithmic variation of Cp with Cs and the power-law dependence of
M on Cp. The sum total of these observations indicate that for the metal
accumulator B. juncea with regard to its capacity to accumulate Ni, the overall
metabolic nature of the plant is important; neither rapid biomass increase nor
a high metal concentration capability favor the removal of high metal mass from
the medium, but rather the plant with the moderate photosynthetically driven
biomass growth and moderate metal concentrations demonstrated the ability to
remove the maximum mass of metal from the medium. The implications of these
observations in the context of the perceived need in phytoremediation
engineering to maximize Cp and M simultaneously in the same plant, are
discussed.
  We consider an asexual population evolving on rugged fitness landscapes which
are defined on the multi-dimensional genotypic space and have many local
optima. We track the most populated genotype as it changes when the population
jumps from a fitness peak to a better one during the process of adaptation.
This is done using the dynamics of the shell model which is a simplified
version of the quasispecies model for infinite populations and standard
Wright-Fisher dynamics for large finite populations. We show that the
population fraction of a genotype obtained within the quasispecies model and
the shell model match for fit genotypes and at short times, but the dynamics of
the two models are identical for questions related to the most populated
genotype. We calculate exactly several properties of the jumps in infinite
populations some of which were obtained numerically in previous works. We also
present our preliminary simulation results for finite populations. In
particular, we measure the jump distribution in time and find that it decays as
$t^{-2}$ as in the quasispecies problem.
  A dynamical system model for tumor -- immune system interaction together with
a method to mimic radiation therapy are proposed. A large population of virtual
patients is simulated following an ideal radiation treatment. A characteristic
parameter, the Immune System -- Tumor Efficiency Rate (ISTER), is introduced.
ISTER dependence of treatment success and other features is studied.
Statistical results allow us to give a patient classification scheme.
Radiotherapy treatment biological effective dose (BED) is thus optimized based
on the patient physical condition, following the ALARA (As Low As Reasonably
Achievable) criterion.
  We present a model for diffusion in a molecularly crowded environment. The
model consists of random barriers in percolation network. Random walks in the
presence of slowly moving barriers show normal diffusion for long times, but
anomalous diffusion at intermediate times. The effective exponents for square
distance versus time usually are below one at these intermediate times, but can
be also larger than one for high barrier concentrations. Thus we observe sub-
as well as super-diffusion in a crowded environment.
  We study the problem of the emergence of cooperation in the spatial
Prisoner's Dilemma. The pioneering work by Nowak and May showed that large
initial populations of cooperators can survive and sustain cooperation in a
square lattice with imitate-the-best evolutionary dynamics. We revisit this
problem in a cost-benefit formulation suitable for a number of biological
applications. We show that if a fixed-amount reward is established for
cooperators to share, a single cooperator can invade a population of defectors
and form structures that are resilient to re-invasion even if the reward
mechanism is turned off. We discuss analytically the case of the invasion by a
single cooperator and present agent-based simulations for small initial
fractions of cooperators. Large cooperation levels, in the sustainability
range, are found. In the conclusions we discuss possible applications of this
model as well as its connections with other mechanisms proposed to promote the
emergence of cooperation.
  We discuss various models of ion transport through cell membrane channels.
Recent experimental data shows that sizes of ion channels are compared to those
of ions and that only few ions may be simultaneously in any single channel.
Theoretical description of ion transport in such channels should therefore take
into account interactions between ions and between ions and channel proteins.
This is not satisfied by macroscopic continuum models based on
Poisson-Nernst-Planck equations. More realistic descriptions of ion transport
are offered by microscopic Brownian and molecular dynamics. One should also
take into account a dynamical character of the channel structure. This is not
yet addressed in the literature
  In this paper we present a novel framework for sequence to shape maps. These
combinatorial maps realize exponentially many shapes, and have preimages which
contain extended connected subgraphs of diameter n (neutral networks). We prove
that all basic properties of RNA folding maps also hold for combinatorial maps.
Our construction is as follows: suppose we are given a graph $H$ over the $\{1
>...,n\}$ and an alphabet of nucleotides together with a symmetric relation
$\mathcal{R}$, implied by base pairing rules. Then the shape of a sequence of
length n is the maximal H subgraph in which all pairs of nucleotides incident
to H-edges satisfy $\mathcal{R}$. Our main result is to prove the existence of
at least $\sqrt{2}^{n-1}$ shapes with extended neutral networks, i.e. shapes
that have a preimage with diameter $n$ and a connected component of size at
least $(\frac{1+\sqrt{5}}{2})^n+(\frac{1-\sqrt{5}}{2})^n$. Furthermore, we show
that there exists a certain subset of shapes which carries a natural graph
structure. In this graph any two shapes are connected by a path of shapes with
respective neutral networks of distance one. We finally discuss our results and
provide a comparison with RNA folding maps.
  We introduce a topology-based nonlinear network model of protein dynamics
with the aim of investigating the interplay of spatial disorder and
nonlinearity. We show that spontaneous localization of energy occurs
generically and is a site-dependent process. Localized modes of nonlinear
origin form spontaneously in the stiffest parts of the structure and display
site-dependent activation energies. Our results provide a straightforward way
for understanding the recently discovered link between protein local stiffness
and enzymatic activity. They strongly suggest that nonlinear phenomena may play
an important role in enzyme function, allowing for energy storage during the
catalytic process.
  We have investigated the migration behaviors of uranium (U) and thorium (Th)
in Earth and other terrestrial planets. Theoretical models of U and Th
migration have been proposed. These models suggest that the unique features of
Earth are closely connected with its unique U and Th migration models and
distribution patterns. In the Earth, U and Th can combine with oxidative
volatile components and water, migrate up to the asthenosphere position to form
an enrichment zone (EZ) of U and Th first, and then migrate up further to the
crusts through magmatism and metamorphism. We emphasize that the formation of
an EZ of U, Th and other heat-producing elements is a prerequisite for the
formation of a plate tectonic system. The heat-producing elements, currently
mainly U and Th, in the EZ are also the energy sources that drive the formation
and evolution of the crust of Earth and create special granitic continental
crusts. In other terrestrial planets, including Mercury, Venus, and Mars, an EZ
can not be formed because of a lack of oxidative volatile components and water.
For this reason, a plate tectonic system can not been developed in these
planets. We also emphasize the influence of U and Th in EZ on the development
and evolution of life on Earth. We propose that since the Earth and planets
were born in a united solar system, there should be some common mechanisms to
create the similarities and differences between them. We have tried to develop
an integrated view to explain some problems in the tectonics of Earth and
evolution, bio-evolution, and planetary dynamics through U and Th geochemistry.
We believe that a comprehensive exploration on energy sources and their
evolution is a good way to build bridges between different disciplines of
science in order to better understand the Earth and planets.
  We incorporate hydrodynamic interactions in a structure-based model of
ubiquitin and demonstrate that the hydrodynamic coupling may reduce the peak
force when stretching the protein at constant speed, especially at larger
speeds. Hydrodynamic interactions are also shown to facilitate unfolding at
constant force and inhibit stretching by fluid flows.
  It is basic question in biology and other fields to identify the char-
acteristic properties that on one hand are shared by structures from a
particular realm, like gene regulation, protein-protein interaction or neu- ral
networks or foodwebs, and that on the other hand distinguish them from other
structures. We introduce and apply a general method, based on the spectrum of
the normalized graph Laplacian, that yields repre- sentations, the spectral
plots, that allow us to find and visualize such properties systematically. We
present such visualizations for a wide range of biological networks and compare
them with those for networks derived from theoretical schemes. The differences
that we find are quite striking and suggest that the search for universal
properties of biological networks should be complemented by an understanding of
more specific features of biological organization principles at different
scales.
  Anhedonia is one of the key symptoms of depression in humans. Consumption of
1% sucrose solution supplemented with 0.2% vanillin was studied in two
experimental contexts in male mice living under chronic social stress induced
by daily experience of defeats in agonistic interactions and leading to
development of depression. In the first experiment, vanillin sucrose solution
was made available as an option of water during 10 days to mice living in group
home cages. Then the mice were subjected to social defeat stress and during
stress exposure they were provided with both vanillin sucrose solution and
water using a free two bottles choice paradigm. In the other experiment,
vanillin sucrose solution were first offered to mice after 8 days of exposure
to social defeat stress. Males familiar with vanillin sucrose solution showed
vanillin sucrose preference while experiencing defeat stress: consumption of
vanillin sucrose solution was about 70% of total liquid consumption. However,
the consumption of vanillin sucrose solution per gram of body weight in mice
imposed to social stress during 20 days was significantly lower than in control
males. In the second experiment, males after 8 days of social defeat stress
were found to consume significantly less vanillin sucrose solution as compared
with control males. On average during two weeks of measurements, vanillin
sucrose solution intake was less than 20% of total liquid consumption in males
with symptoms of depression and anxiety. Consumption per gram of body weight
also appeared to be significantly lower than in control group. Influence of the
experimental context on the development of anhedonia, which was measured by the
reduction in sucrose solution intake by chronically stressed male mice, has
been discussed.
  Cortical neurons are subject to sustained and irregular synaptic activity
which causes important fluctuations of the membrane potential (Vm). We review
here different methods to characterize this activity and its impact on spike
generation. The simplified, fluctuating point-conductance model of synaptic
activity provides the starting point of a variety of methods for the analysis
of intracellular Vm recordings. In this model, the synaptic excitatory and
inhibitory conductances are described by Gaussian-distributed stochastic
variables, or colored conductance noise. The matching of experimentally
recorded Vm distributions to an invertible theoretical expression derived from
the model allows the extraction of parameters characterizing the synaptic
conductance distributions. This analysis can be complemented by the matching of
experimental Vm power spectral densities (PSDs) to a theoretical template, even
though the unexpected scaling properties of experimental PSDs limit the
precision of this latter approach. Building on this stochastic characterization
of synaptic activity, we also propose methods to qualitatively and
quantitatively evaluate spike-triggered averages of synaptic time-courses
preceding spikes. This analysis points to an essential role for synaptic
conductance variance in determining spike times. The presented methods are
evaluated using controlled conductance injection in cortical neurons in vitro
with the dynamic-clamp technique. We review their applications to the analysis
of in vivo intracellular recordings in cat association cortex, which suggest a
predominant role for inhibition in determining both sub- and supra-threshold
dynamics of cortical neurons embedded in active networks.
  We describe a new algorithm, the $(k,\ell)$-pebble game with colors, and use
it obtain a characterization of the family of $(k,\ell)$-sparse graphs and
algorithmic solutions to a family of problems concerning tree decompositions of
graphs. Special instances of sparse graphs appear in rigidity theory and have
received increased attention in recent years. In particular, our colored
pebbles generalize and strengthen the previous results of Lee and Streinu and
give a new proof of the Tutte-Nash-Williams characterization of arboricity. We
also present a new decomposition that certifies sparsity based on the
$(k,\ell)$-pebble game with colors. Our work also exposes connections between
pebble game algorithms and previous sparse graph algorithms by Gabow, Gabow and
Westermann and Hendrickson.
  We show that a determinant of Stirling cycle numbers counts unlabeled acyclic
single-source automata. The proof involves a bijection from these automata to
certain marked lattice paths and a sign-reversing involution to evaluate the
determinant.
  In this paper we show how to compute the $\Lambda_{\alpha}$ norm, $\alpha\ge
0$, using the dyadic grid. This result is a consequence of the description of
the Hardy spaces $H^p(R^N)$ in terms of dyadic and special atoms.
  Partial cubes are isometric subgraphs of hypercubes. Structures on a graph
defined by means of semicubes, and Djokovi\'{c}'s and Winkler's relations play
an important role in the theory of partial cubes. These structures are employed
in the paper to characterize bipartite graphs and partial cubes of arbitrary
dimension. New characterizations are established and new proofs of some known
results are given.
  The operations of Cartesian product and pasting, and expansion and
contraction processes are utilized in the paper to construct new partial cubes
from old ones. In particular, the isometric and lattice dimensions of finite
partial cubes obtained by means of these operations are calculated.
  In this paper we present an algorithm for computing Hecke eigensystems of
Hilbert-Siegel cusp forms over real quadratic fields of narrow class number
one. We give some illustrative examples using the quadratic field
$\Q(\sqrt{5})$. In those examples, we identify Hilbert-Siegel eigenforms that
are possible lifts from Hilbert eigenforms.
  Recently, Bruinier and Ono classified cusp forms $f(z) := \sum_{n=0}^{\infty}
a_f(n)q ^n \in S_{\lambda+1/2}(\Gamma_0(N),\chi)\cap \mathbb{Z}[[q]]$ that does
not satisfy a certain distribution property for modulo odd primes $p$. In this
paper, using Rankin-Cohen Bracket, we extend this result to modular forms of
half integral weight for primes $p \geq 5$. As applications of our main theorem
we derive distribution properties, for modulo primes $p\geq5$, of traces of
singular moduli and Hurwitz class number. We also study an analogue of Newman's
conjecture for overpartitions.
  Serre obtained the p-adic limit of the integral Fourier coefficient of
modular forms on $SL_2(\mathbb{Z})$ for $p=2,3,5,7$. In this paper, we extend
the result of Serre to weakly holomorphic modular forms of half integral weight
on $\Gamma_{0}(4N)$ for $N=1,2,4$. A proof is based on linear relations among
Fourier coefficients of modular forms of half integral weight. As applications
we obtain congruences of Borcherds exponents, congruences of quotient of
Eisentein series and congruences of values of $L$-functions at a certain point
are also studied. Furthermore, the congruences of the Fourier coefficients of
Siegel modular forms on Maass Space are obtained using Ikeda lifting.
  In this article we discuss a relation between the string topology and
differential forms based on the theory of Chen's iterated integrals and the
cyclic bar complex.
  In this note we give a new method for getting a series of approximations for
the extinction probability of the one-dimensional contact process by using the
Gr\"obner basis.
  We present Lie group integrators for nonlinear stochastic differential
equations with non-commutative vector fields whose solution evolves on a smooth
finite dimensional manifold. Given a Lie group action that generates transport
along the manifold, we pull back the stochastic flow on the manifold to the Lie
group via the action, and subsequently pull back the flow to the corresponding
Lie algebra via the exponential map. We construct an approximation to the
stochastic flow in the Lie algebra via closed operations and then push back to
the Lie group and then to the manifold, thus ensuring our approximation lies in
the manifold. We call such schemes stochastic Munthe-Kaas methods after their
deterministic counterparts. We also present stochastic Lie group integration
schemes based on Castell--Gaines methods. These involve using an underlying
ordinary differential integrator to approximate the flow generated by a
truncated stochastic exponential Lie series. They become stochastic Lie group
integrator schemes if we use Munthe-Kaas methods as the underlying ordinary
differential integrator. Further, we show that some Castell--Gaines methods are
uniformly more accurate than the corresponding stochastic Taylor schemes.
Lastly we demonstrate our methods by simulating the dynamics of a free rigid
body such as a satellite and an autonomous underwater vehicle both perturbed by
two independent multiplicative stochastic noise processes.
  Zero-divisors (ZDs) derived by Cayley-Dickson Process (CDP) from
N-dimensional hypercomplex numbers (N a power of 2, at least 4) can represent
singularities and, as N approaches infinite, fractals -- and thereby,scale-free
networks. Any integer greater than 8 and not a power of 2 generates a
meta-fractal or "Sky" when it is interpreted as the "strut constant" (S) of an
ensemble of octahedral vertex figures called "Box-Kites" (the fundamental
building blocks of ZDs). Remarkably simple bit-manipulation rules or "recipes"
provide tools for transforming one fractal genus into others within the context
of Wolfram's Class 4 complexity.
  We prove pfaffian and hafnian versions of Lieb's inequalities on determinants
and permanents of positive semi-definite matrices. We use the hafnian
inequality to improve the lower bound of R\'ev\'esz and Sarantopoulos on the
norm of a product of linear functionals on a real Euclidean space (this subject
is sometimes called the `real linear polarization constant' problem).
  As in the cases of freeness and monotonic independence, the notion of
conditional freeness is meaningful when complex-valued states are replaced by
positive conditional expectations. In this framework, the paper presents
several positivity results, a version of the central limit theorem and an
analogue of the conditionally free R-transform constructed by means of
multilinear function series.
  We formulate a quantum generalization of the notion of the group of
Riemannian isometries for a compact Riemannian manifold, by introducing a
natural notion of smooth and isometric action by a compact quantum group on a
classical or noncommutative manifold described by spectral triples, and then
proving the existence of a universal object (called the quantum isometry group)
in the category of compact quantum groups acting smoothly and isometrically on
a given (possibly noncommutative) manifold satisfying certain regularity
assumptions. In fact, we identify the quantum isometry group with the universal
object in a bigger category, namely the category of `quantum families of smooth
isometries', defined along the line of Woronowicz and Soltan. We also construct
a spectral triple on the Hilbert space of forms on a noncommutative manifold
which is equivariant with respect to a natural unitary representation of the
quantum isometry group. We give explicit description of quantum isometry groups
of commutative and noncommutative tori, and in this context, obtain the quantum
double torus defined in \cite{hajac} as the universal quantum group of
holomorphic isometries of the noncommutative torus.
  In a quantum mechanical model, Diosi, Feldmann and Kosloff arrived at a
conjecture stating that the limit of the entropy of certain mixtures is the
relative entropy as system size goes to infinity. The conjecture is proven in
this paper for density matrices. The first proof is analytic and uses the
quantum law of large numbers. The second one clarifies the relation to channel
capacity per unit cost for classical-quantum channels. Both proofs lead to
generalization of the conjecture.
  We present an algorithm that produces the classification list of smooth Fano
d-polytopes for any given d. The input of the algorithm is a single number,
namely the positive integer d. The algorithm has been used to classify smooth
Fano d-polytopes for d<=7. There are 7622 isomorphism classes of smooth Fano
6-polytopes and 72256 isomorphism classes of smooth Fano 7-polytopes.
  The aim of the present paper is to provide a global presentation of the
theory of special Finsler manifolds. We introduce and investigate globally (or
intrinsically, free from local coordinates) many of the most important and most
commonly used special Finsler manifolds: locally Minkowskian, Berwald,
Landesberg, general Landesberg, $P$-reducible, $C$-reducible,
semi-$C$-reducible, quasi-$C$-reducible, $P^{*}$-Finsler, $C^{h}$-recurrent,
$C^{v}$-recurrent, $C^{0}$-recurrent, $S^{v}$-recurrent, $S^{v}$-recurrent of
the second order, $C_{2}$-like, $S_{3}$-like, $S_{4}$-like, $P_{2}$-like,
$R_{3}$-like, $P$-symmetric, $h$-isotropic, of scalar curvature, of constant
curvature, of $p$-scalar curvature, of $s$-$ps$-curvature. The global
definitions of these special Finsler manifolds are introduced. Various
relationships between the different types of the considered special Finsler
manifolds are found. Many local results, known in the literature, are proved
globally and several new results are obtained. As a by-product, interesting
identities and properties concerning the torsion tensor fields and the
curvature tensor fields are deduced. Although our investigation is entirely
global, we provide; for comparison reasons, an appendix presenting a local
counterpart of our global approach and the local definitions of the special
Finsler spaces considered.
  In this paper we consider the Hardy-Lorentz spaces $H^{p,q}(R^n)$, with
$0<p\le 1$, $0<q\le \infty$. We discuss the atomic decomposition of the
elements in these spaces, their interpolation properties, and the behavior of
singular integrals and other operators acting on them.
  Intersection bodies represent a remarkable class of geometric objects
associated with sections of star bodies and invoking
  Radon transforms, generalized cosine transforms, and the relevant Fourier
analysis. The main focus of this article is interrelation between generalized
cosine transforms of different kinds in the context of their application to
investigation of a certain family of intersection bodies, which we call
$\lam$-intersection bodies. The latter include $k$-intersection bodies (in the
sense of A. Koldobsky) and unit balls of finite-dimensional subspaces of
$L_p$-spaces. In particular, we show that restrictions onto lower dimensional
subspaces of the spherical Radon transforms and the generalized cosine
transforms preserve their integral-geometric structure. We apply this result to
the study of sections of $\lam$-intersection bodies. New characterizations of
this class of bodies are obtained and examples are given. We also review some
known facts and give them new proofs.
  We introduce a family of rings of symmetric functions depending on an
infinite sequence of parameters. A distinguished basis of such a ring is
comprised by analogues of the Schur functions. The corresponding structure
coefficients are polynomials in the parameters which we call the
Littlewood-Richardson polynomials. We give a combinatorial rule for their
calculation by modifying an earlier result of B. Sagan and the author. The new
rule provides a formula for these polynomials which is manifestly positive in
the sense of W. Graham. We apply this formula for the calculation of the
product of equivariant Schubert classes on Grassmannians which implies a
stability property of the structure coefficients. The first manifestly positive
formula for such an expansion was given by A. Knutson and T. Tao by using
combinatorics of puzzles while the stability property was not apparent from
that formula. We also use the Littlewood-Richardson polynomials to describe the
multiplication rule in the algebra of the Casimir elements for the general
linear Lie algebra in the basis of the quantum immanants constructed by A.
Okounkov and G. Olshanski.
  In the article [Petojevic 2006], A. Petojevi\' c verified useful properties
of the $K_{i}(z)$ functions which generalize Kurepa's [Kurepa 1971] left
factorial function. In this note, we present simplified proofs of two of these
results and we answer the open question stated in [Petojevic 2006]. Finally, we
discuss the differential transcendency of the $K_{i}(z)$ functions.
  The goal of this paper is to construct invariant dynamical objects for a (not
necessarily invertible) smooth self map of a compact manifold. We prove a
result that takes advantage of differences in rates of expansion in the terms
of a sheaf cohomological long exact sequence to create unique lifts of finite
dimensional invariant subspaces of one term of the sequence to invariant
subspaces of the preceding term. This allows us to take invariant cohomological
classes and under the right circumstances construct unique currents of a given
type, including unique measures of a given type, that represent those classes
and are invariant under pullback. A dynamically interesting self map may have a
plethora of invariant measures, so the uniquess of the constructed currents is
important. It means that if local growth is not too big compared to the growth
rate of the cohomological class then the expanding cohomological class gives
sufficient "marching orders" to the system to prohibit the formation of any
other such invariant current of the same type (say from some local dynamical
subsystem). Because we use subsheaves of the sheaf of currents we give
conditions under which a subsheaf will have the same cohomology as the sheaf
containing it. Using a smoothing argument this allows us to show that the sheaf
cohomology of the currents under consideration can be canonically identified
with the deRham cohomology groups. Our main theorem can be applied in both the
smooth and holomorphic setting.
  In present paper we propose seemingly new method for finding solutions of
some types of nonlinear PDEs in closed form. The method is based on
decomposition of nonlinear operators on sequence of operators of lower orders.
It is shown that decomposition process can be done by iterative procedure(s),
each step of which is reduced to solution of some auxiliary PDEs system(s) for
one dependent variable. Moreover, we find on this way the explicit expression
of the first-order PDE(s) for first integral of decomposable initial PDE.
Remarkably that this first-order PDE is linear if initial PDE is linear in its
highest derivatives.
  The developed method is implemented in Maple procedure, which can really
solve many of different order PDEs with different number of independent
variables. Examples of PDEs with calculated their general solutions demonstrate
a potential of the method for automatic solving of nonlinear PDEs.
  We treat Koll\'ar's injectivity theorem from the analytic (or differential
geometric) viewpoint. More precisely, we give a curvature condition which
implies Koll\'ar type cohomology injectivity theorems. Our main theorem is
formulated for a compact K\"ahler manifold, but the proof uses the space of
harmonic forms on a Zariski open set with a suitable complete K\"ahler metric.
We need neither covering tricks, desingularizations, nor Leray's spectral
sequence.
  This paper is an exposition of the so-called injective Morita contexts (in
which the connecting bimodule morphisms are injective) and Morita
$\alpha$contexts (in which the connecting bimodules enjoy some local
projectivity in the sense of Zimmermann-Huisgen). Motivated by situations in
which only one trace ideal is in action, or the compatibility between the
bimodule morphisms is not needed, we introduce the notions of Morita
semi-contexts and Morita data, and investigate them. Injective Morita data will
be used (with the help of static and adstatic modules) to establish
equivalences between some intersecting subcategories related to subcategories
of modules that are localized or colocalized by trace ideals of a Morita datum.
We end up with applications of Morita $\alpha$-contexts to $\ast$-modules and
injective right wide Morita contexts.
  We define nonselfadjoint operator algebras with generators $L_{e_1},...,
L_{e_n}, L_{f_1},...,L_{f_m}$ subject to the unitary commutation relations of
the form \[ L_{e_i}L_{f_j} = \sum_{k,l} u_{i,j,k,l} L_{f_l}L_{e_k}\] where $u=
(u_{i,j,k,l})$ is an $nm \times nm$ unitary matrix. These algebras, which
generalise the analytic Toeplitz algebras of rank 2 graphs with a single
vertex, are classified up to isometric isomorphism in terms of the matrix $u$.
  We discussed quantum deformations of D=4 Lorentz and Poincare algebras. In
the case of Poincare algebra it is shown that almost all classical r-matrices
of S. Zakrzewski classification correspond to twisted deformations of Abelian
and Jordanian types. A part of twists corresponding to the r-matrices of
Zakrzewski classification are given in explicit form.
  We give a quantitative analysis of clustering in a stochastic model of
one-dimensional gas. At time zero, the gas consists of $n$ identical particles
that are randomly distributed on the real line and have zero initial speeds.
Particles begin to move under the forces of mutual attraction. When particles
collide, they stick together forming a new particle, called cluster, whose mass
and speed are defined by the laws of conservation. We are interested in the
asymptotic behavior of $K_n(t)$ as $n\to \infty$, where $K_n(t)$ denotes the
number of clusters at time $t$ in the system with $n$ initial particles. Our
main result is a functional limit theorem for $K_n(t)$. Its proof is based on
the discovered localization property of the aggregation process, which states
that the behavior of each particle is essentially defined by the motion of
neighbor particles.
  Our main result in this paper is the following: Given $H^m, H^n$ hyperbolic
spaces of dimensional $m$ and $n$ corresponding, and given a Holder function
$f=(s^1,...,f^{n-1}):\partial H^m\to \partial H^n$ between geometric boundaries
of $H^m$ and $H^n$. Then for each $\epsilon >0$ there exists a harmonic map
$u:H^m\to H^n$ which is continuous up to the boundary (in the sense of
Euclidean) and $u|_{\partial H^m}=(f^1,...,f^{n-1},\epsilon)$.
  We combine classical methods of combinatorial group theory with the theory of
small cancellations over relatively hyperbolic groups to construct finitely
generated torsion-free groups that have only finitely many classes of conjugate
elements. Moreover, we present several results concerning embeddings into such
groups.
  As another application of these techniques, we prove that every countable
group $C$ can be realized as a group of outer automorphisms of a group $N$,
where $N$ is a finitely generated group having Kazhdan's property (T) and
containing exactly two conjugacy classes.
  We get asymptotics for the volume of large balls in an arbitrary locally
compact group G with polynomial growth. This is done via a study of the
geometry of G and a generalization of P. Pansu's thesis. In particular, we show
that any such G is weakly commensurable to some simply connected solvable Lie
group S, the Lie shadow of G. We also show that large balls in G have an
asymptotic shape, i.e. after a suitable renormalization, they converge to a
limiting compact set which can be interpreted geometrically. We then discuss
the speed of convergence, treat some examples and give an application to
ergodic theory. We also answer a question of Burago about left invariant
metrics and recover some results of Stoll on the irrationality of growth series
of nilpotent groups.
  We review recent progress in operator algebraic approach to conformal quantum
field theory. Our emphasis is on use of representation theory in classification
theory. This is based on a series of joint works with R. Longo.
  Sparse Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), a variation on the standard CDMA
method in which the spreading (signature) matrix contains only a relatively
small number of non-zero elements, is presented and analysed using methods of
statistical physics. The analysis provides results on the performance of
maximum likelihood decoding for sparse spreading codes in the large system
limit. We present results for both cases of regular and irregular spreading
matrices for the binary additive white Gaussian noise channel (BIAWGN) with a
comparison to the canonical (dense) random spreading code.
  For positive semidefinite matrices $A$ and $B$, Ando and Zhan proved the
inequalities $||| f(A)+f(B) ||| \ge ||| f(A+B) |||$ and $||| g(A)+g(B) ||| \le
||| g(A+B) |||$, for any unitarily invariant norm, and for any non-negative
operator monotone $f$ on $[0,\infty)$ with inverse function $g$. These
inequalities have very recently been generalised to non-negative concave
functions $f$ and non-negative convex functions $g$, by Bourin and Uchiyama,
and Kosem, respectively.
  In this paper we consider the related question whether the inequalities $|||
f(A)-f(B) ||| \le ||| f(|A-B|) |||$, and $||| g(A)-g(B) ||| \ge ||| g(|A-B|)
|||$, obtained by Ando, for operator monotone $f$ with inverse $g$, also have a
similar generalisation to non-negative concave $f$ and convex $g$. We answer
exactly this question, in the negative for general matrices, and affirmatively
in the special case when $A\ge ||B||$.
  In the course of this work, we introduce the novel notion of $Y$-dominated
majorisation between the spectra of two Hermitian matrices, where $Y$ is itself
a Hermitian matrix, and prove a certain property of this relation that allows
to strengthen the results of Bourin-Uchiyama and Kosem, mentioned above.
  We prove a duality theorem for certain graded algebras and show by various
examples different kinds of failure of tameness of local cohomology.
  Given an orientable weakly self-dual manifold X of rank two, we build a
geometric realization of the Lie algebra sl(6,C) as a naturally defined algebra
L of endomorphisms of the space of differential forms of X. We provide an
explicit description of Serre generators in terms of natural generators of L.
This construction gives a bundle on X which is related to the search for a
natural Gauge theory on X. We consider this paper as a first step in the study
of a rich and interesting algebraic structure.
  We show that there is an hierarchy of intersection rigidity properties of
sets in a closed symplectic manifold: some sets cannot be displaced by
symplectomorphisms from more sets than the others. We also find new examples of
rigidity of intersections involving, in particular, specific fibers of moment
maps of Hamiltonian torus actions, monotone Lagrangian submanifolds (following
the works of P.Albers and P.Biran-O.Cornea), as well as certain, possibly
singular, sets defined in terms of Poisson-commutative subalgebras of smooth
functions. In addition, we get some geometric obstructions to semi-simplicity
of the quantum homology of symplectic manifolds. The proofs are based on the
Floer-theoretical machinery of partial symplectic quasi-states.
  We prove that an arbitrary (not necessarily countably generated) Hilbert
$G$-$\cla$ module on a G-C^* algebra $\cla$ admits an equivariant embedding
into a trivial $G-\cla$ module, provided G is a compact Lie group and its
action on $\cla$ is ergodic.
  We give details of the proof of the remark made in \cite{G2} that the Chern
characters of the canonical generators on the K homology of the quantum group
$SU_q(2)$ are not invariant under the natural $SU_q(2)$ coaction. Furthermore,
the conjecture made in \cite{G2} about the nontriviality of the twisted Chern
character coming from an odd equivariant spectral triple on $SU_q(2)$ is
settled in the affirmative.
  Zero-divisors (ZDs) derived by Cayley-Dickson Process (CDP) from
N-dimensional hypercomplex numbers (N a power of 2, at least 4) can represent
singularities and, as N approaches infinite, fractals -- and thereby,scale-free
networks. Any integer greater than 8 and not a power of 2 generates a
meta-fractal or "Sky" when it is interpreted as the "strut constant" (S) of an
ensemble of octahedral vertex figures called "Box-Kites" (the fundamental
building blocks of ZDs). Remarkably simple bit-manipulation rules or "recipes"
provide tools for transforming one fractal genus into others within the context
of Wolfram's Class 4 complexity.
  We will prove the relative homotopy principle for smooth maps with
singularities of a given {\cal K}-invariant class with a mild condition. We
next study a filtration of the group of homotopy self-equivalences of a given
manifold P by considering singularities of non-negative {\cal K}-codimensions.
  We consider the variation of the surface spanned by closed strings in a
spacetime manifold. Using the Nambu-Goto string action, we induce the geodesic
surface equation, the geodesic surface deviation equation which yields a Jacobi
field, and we define the index form of a geodesic surface as in the case of
point particles to discuss conjugate strings on the geodesic surface.
  We prove the existence of global Bishop discs in a strictly pseudoconvex
Stein domain in an almost complex manifold of complex dimension 2.
  In this note we develop tools and techniques for the treatment of anisotropic
thermo-elasticity in two space dimensions. We use a diagonalisation technique
to obtain properties of the characteristic roots of the full symbol of the
system in order to prove $L^p$--$L^q$ decay rates for its solutions.
  In this paper we show that the quotient Aubry set associated to certain
Lagrangians is totally disconnected (i.e., every connected component consists
of a single point). Moreover, we discuss the relation between this problem and
a Morse-Sard type property for (difference of) critical subsolutions of
Hamilton-Jacobi equations.
  Over algebraically closed fields of characteristic p>2, prolongations of the
simple finite dimensional Lie algebras and Lie superalgebras with Cartan matrix
are studied for certain simplest gradings of these algebras. Several new simple
Lie superalgebras are discovered, serial and exceptional, including superBrown
and superMelikyan superalgebras. Simple Lie superalgebras with Cartan matrix of
rank 2 are classified.
  Let $M$ be a smooth manifold and let $\F$ be a codimension one, $C^\infty$
foliation on $M$, with isolated singularities of Morse type. The study and
classification of pairs $(M,\F)$ is a challenging (and difficult) problem. In
this setting, a classical result due to Reeb \cite{Reeb} states that a manifold
admitting a foliation with exactly two center-type singularities is a sphere.
In particular this is true if the foliation is given by a function. Along these
lines a result due to Eells and Kuiper \cite{Ku-Ee} classify manifolds having a
real-valued function admitting exactly three non-degenerate singular points. In
the present paper, we prove a generalization of the above mentioned results. To
do this, we first describe the possible arrangements of pairs of singularities
and the corresponding codimension one invariant sets, and then we give an
elimination procedure for suitable center-saddle and some saddle-saddle
configurations (of consecutive indices). In the second part, we investigate if
other classical results, such as Haefliger and Novikov (Compact Leaf) theorems,
proved for regular foliations, still hold true in presence of singularities. At
this purpose, in the singular set, $Sing(\F)$ of the foliation $\F$, we
consider {\em{weakly stable}} components, that we define as those components
admitting a neighborhood where all leaves are compact. If $Sing(\F)$ admits
only weakly stable components, given by smoothly embedded curves diffeomorphic
to $S^1$, we are able to extend Haefliger's theorem. Finally, the existence of
a closed curve, transverse to the foliation, leads us to state a Novikov-type
result.
  Let g be a finite dimensional complex semisimple Lie algebra, and let V be a
finite dimensional represenation of g. We give a closed formula for the mth
Frobenius-Schur indicator, m>1, of V in representation-theoretic terms. We
deduce that the indicators take integer values, and that for a large enough m,
the mth indicator of V equals the dimension of the zero weight space of V. For
the classical Lie algebras sl(n), so(2n), so(2n+1) and sp(2n), this is the case
for m greater or equal to 2n-1, 4n-5, 4n-3 and 2n+1, respectively.
  The groups G_{k,1} of Richard Thompson and Graham Higman can be generalized
in a natural way to monoids, that we call M_{k,1}, and to inverse monoids,
called Inv_{k,1}; this is done by simply generalizing bijections to partial
functions or partial injective functions. The monoids M_{k,1} have connections
with circuit complexity (studied in another paper). Here we prove that M_{k,1}
and Inv_{k,1} are congruence-simple for all k. Their Green relations J and D
are characterized: M_{k,1} and Inv_{k,1} are J-0-simple, and they have k-1
non-zero D-classes. They are submonoids of the multiplicative part of the Cuntz
algebra O_k. They are finitely generated, and their word problem over any
finite generating set is in P. Their word problem is coNP-complete over certain
infinite generating sets.
  Changes in this version: Section 4 has been thoroughly revised, and errors
have been corrected; however, the main results of Section 4 do not change.
Sections 1, 2, and 3 are unchanged, except for the proof of Theorem 2.3, which
was incomplete; a complete proof was published in the Appendix of reference
[6], and is also given here.
  We characterize a natural class of modular categories of prime power
Frobenius-Perron dimension as representation categories of twisted doubles of
finite p-groups. We also show that a nilpotent braided fusion category C admits
an analogue of the Sylow decomposition. If the simple objects of C have
integral Frobenius-Perron dimensions then C is group-theoretical. As a
consequence, we obtain that semisimple quasi-Hopf algebras of prime power
dimension are group-theoretical. Our arguments are based on a reconstruction of
twisted group doubles from Lagrangian subcategories of modular categories (this
is reminiscent to the characterization of doubles of quasi-Lie bialgebras in
terms of Manin pairs).
  Given a finite irreducible Coxeter group $W$, a positive integer $d$, and
types $T_1,T_2,...,T_d$ (in the sense of the classification of finite Coxeter
groups), we compute the number of decompositions $c=\si_1\si_2 cdots\si_d$ of a
Coxeter element $c$ of $W$, such that $\si_i$ is a Coxeter element in a
subgroup of type $T_i$ in $W$, $i=1,2,...,d$, and such that the factorisation
is "minimal" in the sense that the sum of the ranks of the $T_i$'s,
$i=1,2,...,d$, equals the rank of $W$. For the exceptional types, these
decomposition numbers have been computed by the first author. The type $A_n$
decomposition numbers have been computed by Goulden and Jackson, albeit using a
somewhat different language. We explain how to extract the type $B_n$
decomposition numbers from results of B\'ona, Bousquet, Labelle and Leroux on
map enumeration. Our formula for the type $D_n$ decomposition numbers is new.
These results are then used to determine, for a fixed positive integer $l$ and
fixed integers $r_1\le r_2\le ...\le r_l$, the number of multi-chains $\pi_1\le
\pi_2\le ...\le \pi_l$ in Armstrong's generalised non-crossing partitions
poset, where the poset rank of $\pi_i$ equals $r_i$, and where the "block
structure" of $\pi_1$ is prescribed. We demonstrate that this result implies
all known enumerative results on ordinary and generalised non-crossing
partitions via appropriate summations. Surprisingly, this result on multi-chain
enumeration is new even for the original non-crossing partitions of Kreweras.
Moreover, the result allows one to solve the problem of rank-selected chain
enumeration in the type $D_n$ generalised non-crossing partitions poset, which,
in turn, leads to a proof of Armstrong's $F=M$ Conjecture in type $D_n$.
  Associated to the classical Weyl groups, we introduce the notion of
degenerate spin affine Hecke algebras and affine Hecke-Clifford algebras. For
these algebras, we establish the PBW properties, formulate the intertwiners,
and describe the centers. We further develop connections of these algebras with
the usual degenerate (i.e. graded) affine Hecke algebras of Lusztig by
introducing a notion of degenerate covering affine Hecke algebras.
  We classify all fusion categories for a given set of fusion rules with three
simple object types. If a conjecture of Ostrik is true, our classification
completes the classification of fusion categories with three simple object
types. To facilitate the discussion we describe a convenient, concrete and
useful variation of graphical calculus for fusion categories, discuss
pivotality and sphericity in this framework, and give a short and elementary
re-proof of the fact that the quadruple dual functor is naturally isomorphic to
the identity.
  We extend our previous classification of superpotentials of ``scalar
curvature type" for the cohomogeneity one Ricci-flat equations. We now consider
the case not covered in our previous paper, i.e., when some weight vector of
the superpotential lies outside (a scaled translate of) the convex hull of the
weight vectors associated with the scalar curvature function of the principal
orbit. In this situation we show that either the isotropy representation has at
most 3 irreducible summands or the first order subsystem associated to the
superpotential is of the same form as the Calabi-Yau condition for submersion
type metrics on complex line bundles over a Fano K\"ahler-Einstein product.
  The minimum semi-degree of a digraph D is the minimum of its minimum
outdegree and its minimum indegree. We show that every sufficiently large
digraph D with minimum semi-degree at least n/2 +k-1 is k-linked. The bound on
the minimum semi-degree is best possible and confirms a conjecture of
Manoussakis from 1990. We also determine the smallest minimum semi-degree which
ensures that a sufficiently large digraph D is k-ordered, i.e. that for every
ordered sequence of k distinct vertices of D there is a directed cycle which
encounters these vertices in this order.
  In this note we consider the time of the collision $\tau$ for $n$ independent
Brownian motions $X^1_t,...,X_t^n$ with drifts $a_1,...,a_n$, each starting
from $x=(x_1,...,x_n)$, where $x_1<...<x_n$. We show the exact asymptotics of
$P_x(\tau>t) = C h(x)t^{-\alpha}e^{-\gamma t}(1 + o(1))$ as $t\to\infty$ and
identify $C,h(x),\alpha,\gamma$ in terms of the drifts.
  Given a multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) channel, feedback from the
receiver can be used to specify a transmit precoding matrix, which selectively
activates the strongest channel modes. Here we analyze the performance of
Random Vector Quantization (RVQ), in which the precoding matrix is selected
from a random codebook containing independent, isotropically distributed
entries. We assume that channel elements are i.i.d. and known to the receiver,
which relays the optimal (rate-maximizing) precoder codebook index to the
transmitter using B bits. We first derive the large system capacity of
beamforming (rank-one precoding matrix) as a function of B, where large system
refers to the limit as B and the number of transmit and receive antennas all go
to infinity with fixed ratios. With beamforming RVQ is asymptotically optimal,
i.e., no other quantization scheme can achieve a larger asymptotic rate. The
performance of RVQ is also compared with that of a simpler reduced-rank scalar
quantization scheme in which the beamformer is constrained to lie in a random
subspace. We subsequently consider a precoding matrix with arbitrary rank, and
approximate the asymptotic RVQ performance with optimal and linear receivers
(matched filter and Minimum Mean Squared Error (MMSE)). Numerical examples show
that these approximations accurately predict the performance of finite-size
systems of interest. Given a target spectral efficiency, numerical examples
show that the amount of feedback required by the linear MMSE receiver is only
slightly more than that required by the optimal receiver, whereas the matched
filter can require significantly more feedback.
  We provide a description of the interpolating and sampling sequences on a
space of holomorphic functions with a uniform growth restriction defined on
finite Riemann surfaces.
  We prove that the limit hypersurfaces of converging curvature flows are
stable, if the initial velocity has a weak sign, and give a survey of the
existence and regularity results.
  There is currently a great deal of interest in the theoretical and practical
possibility of cloaking objects from the observation by electromagnetic waves.
The basic idea of these invisibility devices \cite{glu1, glu2, le},\cite{pss1}
is to use anisotropic {\it transformation media} whose permittivity and
permeability $\var^{\lambda\nu}, \mu^{\lambda\nu}$, are obtained from the ones,
$\var_0^{\lambda\nu}, \mu^{\lambda\nu}_0$, of isotropic media, by singular
transformations of coordinates. In this paper we study electromagnetic cloaking
in the time-domain using the formalism of time-dependent scattering theory.
This formalism allows us to settle in an unambiguous way the mathematical
problems posed by the singularities of the inverse of the permittivity and the
permeability of the {\it transformation media} on the boundary of the cloaked
objects. We write Maxwell's equations in Schr\"odinger form with the
electromagnetic propagator playing the role of the Hamiltonian. We prove that
the electromagnetic propagator outside of the cloaked objects is essentially
self-adjoint. Moreover, the unique self-adjoint extension is unitarily
equivalent to the electromagnetic propagator in the medium
$\var_0^{\lambda\nu}, \mu^{\lambda\nu}_0$. Using this fact, and since the
coordinate transformation is the identity outside of a ball, we prove that the
scattering operator is the identity. Our results give a rigorous proof that the
construction of \cite{glu1, glu2, le}, \cite{pss1} perfectly cloaks passive and
active devices from observation by electromagnetic waves. Furthermore, we prove
cloaking for general anisotropic materials. In particular, our results prove
that it is possible to cloak objects inside general crystals.
  These notes accompany a lecture about the topology of symplectic (and other)
quotients. The aim is two-fold: first to advertise the ease of computation in
the symplectic category; and second to give an account of some new computations
for weighted projective spaces. We start with a brief exposition of how
orbifolds arise in the symplectic category, and discuss the techniques used to
understand their topology. We then show how these results can be used to
compute the Chen-Ruan orbifold cohomology ring of abelian symplectic
reductions. We conclude by comparing the several rings associated to a weighted
projective space. We make these computations directly, avoiding any mention of
a stacky fan or of a labeled moment polytope.
  In trigonometric series terms all polyharmonic functions inside the unit disk
are described. For such functions it is proved the existence of their boundary
values on the unit circle in the space of hyperfunctions. The necessary and
sufficient conditions are presented for the boundary value to belong to certain
subspaces of the space of hyperfunctions.
  In a previous paper, we showed how certain orientations of the edges of a
graph G embedded in a closed oriented surface S can be understood as discrete
spin structures on S. We then used this correspondence to give a geometric
proof of the Pfaffian formula for the partition function of the dimer model on
G. In the present article, we generalize these results to the case of compact
oriented surfaces with boundary. We also show how the operations of cutting and
gluing act on discrete spin structures and how they change the partition
function. These operations allow to reformulate the dimer model as a quantum
field theory on surface graphs.
  It is known that every closed curve of length \leq 4 in R^n (n>0) can be
surrounded by a sphere of radius 1, and that this is the best bound. Letting S
denote the circle of circumference 4, with the arc-length metric, we here
express this fact by saying that the "mapping radius" of S in R^n is 1.
  Tools are developed for estimating the mapping radius of a metric space X in
a metric space Y. In particular, it is shown that for X a bounded metric space,
the supremum of the mapping radii of X in all convex subsets of normed metric
spaces is equal to the infimum of the sup norms of all convex linear
combinations of the functions d(x,-): X --> R (x\in X).
  Several explicit mapping radii are calculated, and open questions noted.
  Let X be a simplicial complex on the vertex set V. The rational Leray number
L(X) of X is the minimal d such that the rational reduced homology of any
induced subcomplex of X vanishes in dimensions d and above. Let \pi be a
simplicial map from X to a simplex Y, such that the cardinality of the preimage
of any point in |Y| is at most r. It is shown that L(\pi(X)) \leq r L(X)+r-1.
One consequence is a topological extension of a Helly type result of Amenta.
  This paper considers the use of punctured convolutional codes to obtain
pragmatic space-time trellis codes over block-fading channel. We show that good
performance can be achieved even when puncturation is adopted and that we can
still employ the same Viterbi decoder of the convolutional mother code by using
approximated metrics without increasing the complexity of the decoding
operations.
  We show that there is a unique Markov trace on the tower of Temperley--Lieb
type quotients of Hecke algebras of Coxeter type $E_n$ (for all $n \geq 6$). We
explain in detail how this trace may be computed easily using tom Dieck's
calculus of diagrams. As applications, we show how to use the trace to show
that the diagram representation is faithful, and to compute leading
coefficients of certain Kazhdan--Lusztig polynomials.
  The paper presents a survey of mathematical problems, techniques, and
challenges arising in the Thermoacoustic and Photoacoustic Tomography.
  Let ${\mathcal S}(\R)$ be an o-minimal structure over $\R$, $T \subset
\R^{k_1+k_2+\ell}$ a closed definable set, and $$ \displaylines{\pi_1:
\R^{k_1+k_2+\ell}\to \R^{k_1 + k_2}, \pi_2: \R^{k_1+k_2+\ell}\to \R^{\ell}, \
\pi_3: \R^{k_1 + k_2} \to \R^{k_2}} $$ the projection maps.
  For any collection ${\mathcal A} = \{A_1,...,A_n\}$ of subsets of
$\R^{k_1+k_2}$, and $\z \in \R^{k_2}$, let $\A_\z$ denote the collection of
subsets of $\R^{k_1}$, $\{A_{1,\z},..., A_{n,\z}\}$, where $A_{i,\z} = A_i \cap
\pi_3^{-1}(\z), 1 \leq i \leq n$. We prove that there exists a constant $C =
C(T) > 0,$ such that for any family ${\mathcal A} = \{A_1,...,A_n\}$ of
definable sets, where each $A_i = \pi_1(T \cap \pi_2^{-1}(\y_i))$, for some
$\y_i \in \R^{\ell}$, the number of distinct stable homotopy types of $\A_\z,
\z \in \R^{k_2}$, is bounded by $ \displaystyle{C \cdot n^{(k_1+1)k_2},} $
while the number of distinct homotopy types is bounded by $ \displaystyle{C
\cdot n^{(k_1+3)k_2}.} $ This generalizes to the general o-minimal setting,
bounds of the same type proved in \cite{BV} for semi-algebraic and
semi-Pfaffian families. One main technical tool used in the proof of the above
results, is a topological comparison theorem which might be of independent
interest in the study of arrangements.
  For an arbitrary operator A on a Banach space X which is a generator of
C_0-group with certain growth condition at the infinity, the direct theorems on
connection between the smoothness degree of a vector $x\in X$ with respect to
the operator A, the order of convergence to zero of the best approximation of x
by exponential type entire vectors for the operator A, and the k-module of
continuity are given. Obtained results allows to acquire Jackson-type
inequalities in many classic spaces of periodic functions and weighted $L_p$
spaces.
  For the past two decades, single-index model, a special case of projection
pursuit regression, has proven to be an efficient way of coping with the high
dimensional problem in nonparametric regression. In this paper, based on weakly
dependent sample, we investigate the single-index prediction (SIP) model which
is robust against deviation from the single-index model. The single-index is
identified by the best approximation to the multivariate prediction function of
the response variable, regardless of whether the prediction function is a
genuine single-index function. A polynomial spline estimator is proposed for
the single-index prediction coefficients, and is shown to be root-n consistent
and asymptotically normal. An iterative optimization routine is used which is
sufficiently fast for the user to analyze large data of high dimension within
seconds. Simulation experiments have provided strong evidence that corroborates
with the asymptotic theory. Application of the proposed procedure to the rive
flow data of Iceland has yielded superior out-of-sample rolling forecasts.
  This paper discusses the benefits of describing the world as information,
especially in the study of the evolution of life and cognition. Traditional
studies encounter problems because it is difficult to describe life and
cognition in terms of matter and energy, since their laws are valid only at the
physical scale. However, if matter and energy, as well as life and cognition,
are described in terms of information, evolution can be described consistently
as information becoming more complex.
  The paper presents eight tentative laws of information, valid at multiple
scales, which are generalizations of Darwinian, cybernetic, thermodynamic,
psychological, philosophical, and complexity principles. These are further used
to discuss the notions of life, cognition and their evolution.
  We lead the algorithm of expansion of sojourn probability of many-dimensional
diffusion processes in small domain. The principal member of this expansion
defines normalizing coefficient for special limit theorems.
  We show that if a complete Riemannian manifold supports a vector field such
that the Ricci tensor plus the Lie derivative of the metric with respect to the
vector field has a positive lower bound, then the fundamental group is finite.
In particular, it follows that complete shrinking Ricci solitons and complete
smooth metric measure spaces with a positive lower bound on the Bakry-Emery
tensor have finite fundamental group. The method of proof is to generalize
arguments of Garcia-Rio and Fernandez-Lopez in the compact case.
  We study the pseudospectrum of a class of non-selfadjoint differential
operators. Our work consists in a detailed study of the microlocal properties,
which rule the spectral stability or instability phenomena appearing under
small perturbations for elliptic quadratic differential operators. The class of
elliptic quadratic differential operators stands for the class of operators
defined in the Weyl quantization by complex-valued elliptic quadratic symbols.
We establish in this paper a simple necessary and sufficient condition on the
Weyl symbol of these operators, which ensures the stability of their spectra.
When this condition is violated, we prove that it occurs some strong spectral
instabilities for the high energies of these operators, in some regions which
can be far away from their spectra. We give a precise geometrical description
of them, which explains the results obtained for these operators in some
numerical simulations giving the computation of false eigenvalues far from
their spectra by algorithms for eigenvalues computing.
  Product probability property, known in the literature as statistical
independence, is examined first. Then generalized entropies are introduced, all
of which give generalizations to Shannon entropy. It is shown that the nature
of the recursivity postulate automatically determines the logarithmic
functional form for Shannon entropy. Due to the logarithmic nature, Shannon
entropy naturally gives rise to additivity, when applied to situations having
product probability property. It is argued that the natural process is
non-additivity, important, for example, in statistical mechanics, even in
product probability property situations and additivity can hold due to the
involvement of a recursivity postulate leading to a logarithmic function.
Generalizations, including Mathai's generalized entropy are introduced and some
of the properties are examined. Situations are examined where Mathai's entropy
leads to pathway models, exponential and power law behavior and related
differential equations. Connection of Mathai's entropy to Kerridge's measure of
"inaccuracy" is also explored.
  This paper deals with the investigation of the solution of an unified
fractional reaction-diffusion equation associated with the Caputo derivative as
the time-derivative and Riesz-Feller fractional derivative as the
space-derivative. The solution is derived by the application of the Laplace and
Fourier transforms in closed form in terms of the H-function. The results
derived are of general nature and include the results investigated earlier by
many authors, notably by Mainardi et al. (2001, 2005) for the fundamental
solution of the space-time fractional diffusion equation, and Saxena et al.
(2006a, b) for fractional reaction- diffusion equations. The advantage of using
Riesz-Feller derivative lies in the fact that the solution of the fractional
reaction-diffusion equation containing this derivative includes the fundamental
solution for space-time fractional diffusion, which itself is a generalization
of neutral fractional diffusion, space-fractional diffusion, and
time-fractional diffusion. These specialized types of diffusion can be
interpreted as spatial probability density functions evolving in time and are
expressible in terms of the H-functions in compact form.
  We build a sequence of empirical measures on the space D(R_+,R^d) of
R^d-valued c\`adl\`ag functions on R_+ in order to approximate the law of a
stationary R^d-valued Markov and Feller process (X_t). We obtain some general
results of convergence of this sequence. Then, we apply them to Brownian
diffusions and solutions to L\'evy driven SDE's under some Lyapunov-type
stability assumptions. As a numerical application of this work, we show that
this procedure gives an efficient way of option pricing in stochastic
volatility models.
  A class of three-dimensional initial data characterized by uniformly large
vorticity is considered for the Euler equations of incompressible fluids. The
fast singular oscillating limits of the Euler equations are studied for
parametrically resonant cylinders. Resonances of fast swirling Beltrami waves
deplete the Euler nonlinearity. The resonant Euler equations are systems of
three-dimensional rigid body equations, coupled or not. Some cases of these
resonant systems have homoclinic cycles, and orbits in the vicinity of these
homoclinic cycles lead to bursts of the Euler solution measured in Sobolev
norms of order higher than that corresponding to the enstrophy.
  Cofibrations are defined in the category of Fr\"olicher spaces by weakening
the analog of the classical definition to enable smooth homotopy extensions to
be more easily constructed, using flattened unit intervals. We later relate
smooth cofibrations to smooth neighborhood deformation retracts. The notion of
smooth neighborhood deformation retract gives rise to an analogous result that
a closed Fr\"olicher subspace $A$ of the Fr\"olicher space $X$ is a smooth
neighborhood deformation retract of $X$ if and only if the inclusion $i:
A\hookrightarrow X$ comes from a certain subclass of cofibrations. As an
application we construct the right Puppe sequence.
  We present a simple proof of the resolvent estimates of elliptic Fourier
multipliers on the Euclidean space, and apply them to the analysis of
time-global and spatially-local smoothing estimates of a class of dispersive
equations. For this purpose we study in detail the properties of the
restriction of Fourier transform on the unit cotangent sphere associated with
the symbols of multipliers.
  The Colin de Verdi\`ere number $\mu(G)$ of a graph $G$ is the maximum corank
of a Colin de Verdi\`ere matrix for $G$ (that is, of a Schr\"odinger operator
on $G$ with a single negative eigenvalue). In 2001, Lov\'asz gave a
construction that associated to every convex 3-polytope a Colin de Verdi\`ere
matrix of corank 3 for its 1-skeleton.
  We generalize the Lov\'asz construction to higher dimensions by interpreting
it as minus the Hessian matrix of the volume of the polar dual. As a corollary,
$\mu(G) \ge d$ if $G$ is the 1-skeleton of a convex $d$-polytope.
  Determination of the signature of the Hessian of the volume is based on the
second Minkowski inequality for mixed volumes and on Bol's condition for
equality.
  In this article we will first prove a result about convergence in capacity.
Using the achieved result we will obtain a general decompositon theorem for
complex Monge-Ampere measues which will be used to prove a comparison principle
for the complex Monge-Ampere operator.
  It has been observed that particular rate-1/2 partially systematic parallel
concatenated convolutional codes (PCCCs) can achieve a lower error floor than
that of their rate-1/3 parent codes. Nevertheless, good puncturing patterns can
only be identified by means of an exhaustive search, whilst convergence towards
low bit error probabilities can be problematic when the systematic output of a
rate-1/2 partially systematic PCCC is heavily punctured. In this paper, we
present and study a family of rate-1/2 partially systematic PCCCs, which we
call pseudo-randomly punctured codes. We evaluate their bit error rate
performance and we show that they always yield a lower error floor than that of
their rate-1/3 parent codes. Furthermore, we compare analytic results to
simulations and we demonstrate that their performance converges towards the
error floor region, owning to the moderate puncturing of their systematic
output. Consequently, we propose pseudo-random puncturing as a means of
improving the bandwidth efficiency of a PCCC and simultaneously lowering its
error floor.
  The problem of limit shapes in the six-vertex model with domain wall boundary
conditions is addressed by considering a specially tailored bulk correlation
function, the emptiness formation probability. A closed expression of this
correlation function is given, both in terms of certain determinant and
multiple integral, which allows for a systematic treatment of the limit shapes
of the model for full range of values of vertex weights. Specifically, we show
that for vertex weights corresponding to the free-fermion line on the phase
diagram, the emptiness formation probability is related to a one-matrix model
with a triple logarithmic singularity, or Triple Penner model. The saddle-point
analysis of this model leads to the Arctic Circle Theorem, and its
generalization to the Arctic Ellipses, known previously from domino tilings.
  We study the limiting eigenvalue distribution of $n\times n$ banded Toeplitz
matrices as $n\to \infty$. From classical results of Schmidt-Spitzer and
Hirschman it is known that the eigenvalues accumulate on a special curve in the
complex plane and the normalized eigenvalue counting measure converges weakly
to a measure on this curve as $n\to\infty$. In this paper, we characterize the
limiting measure in terms of an equilibrium problem. The limiting measure is
one component of the unique vector of measures that minimes an energy
functional defined on admissible vectors of measures. In addition, we show that
each of the other components is the limiting measure of the normalized counting
measure on certain generalized eigenvalues.
  We study the high temperature phase of a family of typed branching diffusions
initially studied in [Ast\'{e}risque 236 (1996) 133--154] and [Lecture Notes in
Math. 1729 (2000) 239--256 Springer, Berlin]. The primary aim is to establish
some almost-sure limit results for the long-term behavior of this particle
system, namely the speed at which the population of particles colonizes both
space and type dimensions, as well as the rate at which the population grows
within this asymptotic shape. Our approach will include identification of an
explicit two-phase mechanism by which particles can build up in sufficient
numbers with spatial positions near $-\gamma t$ and type positions near $\kappa
\sqrt{t}$ at large times $t$. The proofs involve the application of a variety
of martingale techniques--most importantly a ``spine'' construction involving a
change of measure with an additive martingale. In addition to the model's
intrinsic interest, the methodologies presented contain ideas that will adapt
to other branching settings. We also briefly discuss applications to traveling
wave solutions of an associated reaction--diffusion equation.
  A recent result of Balandraud shows that for every subset S of an abelian
group G, there exists a non trivial subgroup H such that |TS| <= |T|+|S|-2
holds only if the stabilizer of TS contains H. Notice that Kneser's Theorem
says only that the stabilizer of TS must be a non-zero subgroup.
  This strong form of Kneser's theorem follows from some nice properties of a
certain poset investigated by Balandraud. We consider an analogous poset for
nonabelian groups and, by using classical tools from Additive Number Theory,
extend some of the above results. In particular we obtain short proofs of
Balandraud's results in the abelian case.
  We study the notion of Fagnano orbits for dual polygonal billiards. We used
them to characterize regular polygons and we study the iteration of the
developing map.
  This paper deals with discrete-time Markov control processes on a general
state space. A long-run risk-sensitive average cost criterion is used as a
performance measure. The one-step cost function is nonnegative and possibly
unbounded. Using the vanishing discount factor approach, the optimality
inequality and an optimal stationary strategy for the decision maker are
established.
  We show that the number of renewals up to time $t$ exhibits distributional
fluctuations as $t\to\infty$ if the underlying lifetimes increase at an
exponential rate in a distributional sense. This provides a probabilistic
explanation for the asymptotics of insertion depth in random trees generated by
a bit-comparison strategy from uniform input; we also obtain a representation
for the resulting family of limit laws along subsequences. Our approach can
also be used to obtain rates of convergence.
  In this paper we study the shape of least-energy solutions to a singularly
perturbed quasilinear problem with homogeneous Neumann boundary condition. We
use an intrinsic variation method to show that at limit, the global maximum
point of least-energy solutions goes to a point on the boundary faster than the
linear rate and this point on the boundary approaches to a point where the mean
curvature of the boundary achieves its maximum. We also give a complete proof
of exponential decay of least-energy solutions.
  Semimartingale reflecting Brownian motions (SRBMs) living in the closures of
domains with piecewise smooth boundaries are of interest in applied probability
because of their role as heavy traffic approximations for some stochastic
networks. In this paper, assuming certain conditions on the domains and
directions of reflection, a perturbation result, or invariance principle, for
SRBMs is proved. This provides sufficient conditions for a process that
satisfies the definition of an SRBM, except for small random perturbations in
the defining conditions, to be close in distribution to an SRBM. A crucial
ingredient in the proof of this result is an oscillation inequality for
solutions of a perturbed Skorokhod problem. We use the invariance principle to
show weak existence of SRBMs under mild conditions. We also use the invariance
principle, in conjunction with known uniqueness results for SRBMs, to give some
sufficient conditions for validating approximations involving (i) SRBMs in
convex polyhedrons with a constant reflection vector field on each face of the
polyhedron, and (ii) SRBMs in bounded domains with piecewise smooth boundaries
and possibly nonconstant reflection vector fields on the boundary surfaces.
  It is shown that in the units of augmentation one of an integral group ring
$\mathbb{Z} G$ of a finite group $G$, a noncyclic subgroup of order $p^{2}$,
for some odd prime $p$, exists only if such a subgroup exists in $G$. The
corresponding statement for $p=2$ holds by the Brauer--Suzuki theorem, as
recently observed by W. Kimmerle.
  As main result we show that for each g > 1 there is some translation surface
of genus g whose Veech group is a non congruence subgroup of SL(2,Z). We use
origamis/square-tiled surfaces to produce our examples. The article is divided
into two parts: In the first part we introduce translation surfaces, origamis,
Veech groups and Teichmueller curves and show for two origamis in genus 2 that
their Veech groups are non congruence groups; in the second part we provide a
technique that produces sequences of origamis whose Veech groups are
decreasing. This is used to prove the main result.
  Thermodynamic stable interaction pair potentials which are not of the form
``positive function + real continuous function of positive type'' are presented
in dimension one. Construction of such a potential in dimension two is
sketched. These constructions use only elementary calculations. The
mathematical background is discussed separately.
  In this note we describe the natural coordinatizations of a Delzant space
defined as a reduced phase space (symplectic geometry view-point) and give
explicit formulas for the coordinate transformations. For each fixed point of
the torus action on the Delzant polytope, we have a maximal coordinatization of
an open cell in the Delzant space which contains the fixed point. This cell is
equal to the domain of definition of one of the natural coordinatizations of
the Delzant space as a toric variety (complex algebraic geometry view-point),
and we give an explicit formula for the toric variety coordinates in terms of
the reduced phase space coordinates. We use considerations in the maximal
coordinate neighborhoods to give simple proofs of some of the basic facts about
the Delzant space, as a reduced phase space, and as a toric variety. These can
be viewed as a first application of the coordinatizations, and serve to make
the presentation more self-contained.
  These notes, based on the paper "Formal Solution of the Master Equation via
HPT and Deformation Theory" by Huebschmann and Stasheff, were prepared for a
series of talks at Illinois State University with the intention of applying
Homological Perturbation Theory to the derived bracket constructions of
Kosmann-Schwarzbach and T. Voronov, and eventually writing Part II of the paper
"Higher Derived Brackets and Deformation Theory I" by the present authors.
  We present a variational formulation of electrodynamics using de Rham even
and odd differential forms. Our formulation relies on a variational principle
more complete than the Hamilton principle and thus leads to field equations
with external sources and permits the derivation of the constitutive relations.
We interpret a domain in space-time as an odd de Rham 4-current. This permits a
treatment of different types of boundary problems in an unified way. In
particular we obtain a smooth transition to the infinitesimal version by using
a current with a one point support.
  A projective surface S is said to be isogenous to a product if there exist
two smooth curves C, F and a finite group G acting freely on C \times F so that
S=(C \times F)/G. In this paper we classify all surfaces with p_g=q=1 which are
isogenous to a product.
  Let $\Gamma =(V,E)$ be a point-symmetric reflexive relation and let $v\in V$
such that
  $|\Gamma (v)|$ is finite (and hence $|\Gamma (x)|$ is finite for all $x$, by
the transitive action of the group of automorphisms). Let $j\in \N$ be an
integer such that $\Gamma ^j(v)\cap \Gamma ^{-}(v)=\{v\}$. Our main result
states that
  $$ |\Gamma ^{j} (v)|\ge | \Gamma ^{j-1} (v)| + |\Gamma (v)|-1.$$
  As an application we have $ |\Gamma ^{j} (v)| \ge 1+(|\Gamma (v)|-1)j.$ The
last result confirms a recent conjecture of Seymour in the case of
vertex-symmetric graphs. Also it gives a short proof for the validity of the
Caccetta-H\"aggkvist conjecture for vertex-symmetric graphs and generalizes an
additive result of Shepherdson.
  We show a one-to-one correspondence between arrangements of d lines in the
projective plane, and lines in P^{d-2}. We apply this correspondence to
classify (3,q)-nets over the complex numbers for all q<=6. When q=6, we have
twelve possible combinatorial cases, but we prove that only nine of them are
realizable. This new case shows several new properties for 3-nets: different
dimensions for moduli, strict realization over certain fields, etc. We also
construct a three dimensional family of (3,8)-nets corresponding to the
Quaternion group.
  In this note we contrast two transformation-based methods to deduce absolute
extrema and the corresponding extremizers. Unlike variation-based methods, the
transformation-based ones of Carlson and Leitmann and the recent one of Silva
and Torres are direct in that they permit obtaining solutions by inspection.
  We describe the maximal torus and maximal unipotent subgroup of the Picard
variety of a proper scheme over a perfect field.
  This paper is concerned with a shape sensitivity analysis of a viscous
incompressible fluid driven by Stokes equations with nonhomogeneous boundary
condition. The structure of shape gradient with respect to the shape of the
variable domain for a given cost function is established by using the
differentiability of a minimax formulation involving a Lagrangian functional
combining with function space parametrization technique or function space
embedding technique. We apply an gradient type algorithm to our problem.
Numerical examples show that our theory is useful for practical purpose and the
proposed algorithm is feasible.
  Given a remarkable representation of the generalized Pauli operators of
two-qubits in terms of the points of the generalized quadrangle of order two,
W(2), it is shown that specific subsets of these operators can also be
associated with the points and lines of the four-dimensional projective space
over the Galois field with two elements - the so-called Veldkamp space of W(2).
An intriguing novelty is the recognition of (uni- and tri-centric) triads and
specific pentads of the Pauli operators in addition to the "classical" subsets
answering to geometric hyperplanes of W(2).
  In this paper, we describe a new, systematic and explicit way of
approximating solutions of mixed hyperbolic systems with constant coefficients
satisfying a Uniform Lopatinski Condition via different Penalization
approaches.
  We investigate cooperative wireless relay networks in which the nodes can
help each other in data transmission. We study different coding strategies in
the single-source single-destination network with many relay nodes. Given the
myriad of ways in which nodes can cooperate, there is a natural routing
problem, i.e., determining an ordered set of nodes to relay the data from the
source to the destination. We find that for a given route, the
decode-and-forward strategy, which is an information theoretic cooperative
coding strategy, achieves rates significantly higher than that achievable by
the usual multi-hop coding strategy, which is a point-to-point non-cooperative
coding strategy. We construct an algorithm to find an optimal route (in terms
of rate maximizing) for the decode-and-forward strategy. Since the algorithm
runs in factorial time in the worst case, we propose a heuristic algorithm that
runs in polynomial time. The heuristic algorithm outputs an optimal route when
the nodes transmit independent codewords. We implement these coding strategies
using practical low density parity check codes to compare the performance of
the strategies on different routes.
  We prove that if a group is nilpotent (resp. metabelian), then so is the
subgroup of its automorphism group generated by all polynomial automorphisms.
  We argue that the critical behaviour near the point of ``gradient
catastrophe" of the solution to the Cauchy problem for the focusing nonlinear
Schr\"odinger equation $ i\epsilon \psi_t +\frac{\epsilon^2}2\psi_{xx}+
|\psi|^2 \psi =0$ with analytic initial data of the form $\psi(x,0;\epsilon)
=A(x) e^{\frac{i}{\epsilon} S(x)}$ is approximately described by a particular
solution to the Painlev\'e-I equation.
  In this paper, we continue the study of the category of functors Fquad,
associated to F_2-vector spaces equipped with a nondegenerate quadratic form,
initiated in two previous papers of the author. We define a filtration of the
standard projective objects in Fquad; this refines to give a decomposition into
indecomposable factors of the two first standard projective objects in Fquad.
As an application of these two decompositions, we give a complete description
of the polynomial functors of the category Fquad.
  We find a necessary and sufficient condition for a compact 7-manifold to
admit a $\tilde G_2$-structure. As a result we find a sufficient condition for
an open 7-manifold to admit a closed 3-form of $\tilde G_2$-type.
  We consider a sequence of additive functionals {\phi_n}, set on a sequence of
Markov chains {X_n} that weakly converges to a Markov process X. We give
sufficient condition for such a sequence to converge in distribution,
formulated in terms of the characteristics of the additive functionals, and
related to the Dynkin's theorem on the convergence of W-functionals. As an
application of the main theorem, the general sufficient condition for
convergence of additive functionals in terms of transition probabilities of the
chains X_n is proved.
  In this paper we study a class of backward stochastic differential equations
(BSDEs) of the form dY(t)= -AY(t)dt -f_0(t,Y(t))dt -f_1(t,Y(t),Z(t))dt +
Z(t)dW(t) on the interval [0,T], with given final condition at time T, in an
infinite dimensional Hilbert space H. The unbounded operator A is sectorial and
dissipative and the nonlinearity f_0(t,y) is dissipative and defined for y only
taking values in a subspace of H. A typical example is provided by the
so-called polynomial nonlinearities. Applications are given to stochastic
partial differential equations and spin systems.
  A unified approach to (symmetric informationally complete) positive operator
valued measures and mutually unbiased bases is developed in this article. The
approach is based on the use of operator equivalents expanded in the enveloping
algebra of SU(2). Emphasis is put on similarities and differences between
SIC-POVMs and MUBs.
  This article discusses completeness of Boolean Algebra as First Order Theory
in Goedel's meaning. If Theory is complete then any possible transformation is
equivalent to some transformation using axioms, predicates etc. defined for
this theory. If formula is to be proved (or disproved) then it has to be
reduced to axioms. If every transformation is deducible then also optimal
transformation is deducible. If every transformation is exponential then
optimal one is too, what allows to define lower bound for discussed problem to
be exponential (outside P). Then we show algorithm for NDTM solving the same
problem in O(n^c) (so problem is in NP), what proves that P \neq NP.
  Article proves also that result of relativisation of P=NP question and oracle
shown by Baker-Gill-Solovay distinguish between deterministic and
non-deterministic calculation models. If there exists oracle A for which
P^A=NP^A then A consists of infinite number of algorithms, DTMs, axioms and
predicates, or like NDTM infinite number of simultaneous states.
  Foods naturally contain a number of contaminants that may have different and
long term toxic effects. This paper introduces a novel approach for the
assessment of such chronic food risk that integrates the pharmacokinetic
properties of a given contaminant. The estimation of such a Kinetic Dietary
Exposure Model (KDEM) should be based on long term consumption data which, for
the moment, can only be provided by Household Budget Surveys such as the
SECODIP panel in France. A semi parametric model is proposed to decompose a
series of household quantities into individual quantities which are then used
as inputs of the KDEM. As an illustration, the risk assessment related to the
presence of methyl mercury in seafood is revisited using this novel approach.
  As a continuation of Rabei et al. work [11], the Hamilton- Jacobi partial
differential equation is generalized to be applicable for systems containing
fractional derivatives. The Hamilton- Jacobi function in configuration space is
obtained in a similar manner to the usual mechanics. Two problems are
considered to demonstrate the application of the formalism. The result found to
be in exact agreement with Agrawal's formalism.
  In this paper we investigate the optimal control problem for a class of
stochastic Cauchy evolution problem with non standard boundary dynamic and
control. The model is composed by an infinite dimensional dynamical system
coupled with a finite dimensional dynamics, which describes the boundary
conditions of the internal system. In other terms, we are concerned with non
standard boundary conditions, as the value at the boundary is governed by a
different stochastic differential equation.
  Wentzel, Kramers, Brillouin (WKB) approximation for fractional systems is
investigated in this paper using the fractional calculus. In the fractional
case the wave function is constructed such that the phase factor is the same as
the Hamilton's principle function "S". To demonstrate our proposed approach two
examples are investigated in details.
  This paper investigates the many-to-one throughput capacity (and by symmetry,
one-to-many throughput capacity) of IEEE 802.11 multi-hop networks. It has
generally been assumed in prior studies that the many-to-one throughput
capacity is upper-bounded by the link capacity L. Throughput capacity L is not
achievable under 802.11. This paper introduces the notion of "canonical
networks", which is a class of regularly-structured networks whose capacities
can be analyzed more easily than unstructured networks. We show that the
throughput capacity of canonical networks under 802.11 has an analytical upper
bound of 3L/4 when the source nodes are two or more hops away from the sink;
and simulated throughputs of 0.690L (0.740L) when the source nodes are many
hops away. We conjecture that 3L/4 is also the upper bound for general
networks. When all links have equal length, 2L/3 can be shown to be the upper
bound for general networks. Our simulations show that 802.11 networks with
random topologies operated with AODV routing can only achieve throughputs far
below the upper bounds. Fortunately, by properly selecting routes near the
gateway (or by properly positioning the relay nodes leading to the gateway) to
fashion after the structure of canonical networks, the throughput can be
improved significantly by more than 150%. Indeed, in a dense network, it is
worthwhile to deactivate some of the relay nodes near the sink judiciously.
  This article gives the proof of results announced in [J. Blanc, Finite
Abelian subgroups of the Cremona group of the plane, C.R. Acad. Sci. Paris,
S\'er. I 344 (2007), 21-26.] and some description of automorphisms of rational
surfaces.
  Given a finite Abelian subgroup of the Cremona group of the plane, we provide
a way to decide whether it is birationally conjugate to a group of
automorphisms of a minimal surface.
  In particular, we prove that a finite cyclic group of birational
transformations of the plane is linearisable if and only if none of its
non-trivial elements fix a curve of positive genus. For finite Abelian groups,
there exists only one surprising exception, a group isomorphic to Z/2ZxZ/4Z,
whose non-trivial elements do not fix a curve of positive genus but which is
not conjugate to a group of automorphisms of a minimal rational surface.
  We also give some descriptions of automorphisms (not necessarily of finite
order) of del Pezzo surfaces and conic bundles.
  Three types of integral representations for the cumulative distribution
functions of convolutions of non-central p-variate gamma distributions are
given by integration of elementary complex functions over the p-cube Cp =
(-pi,pi]x...x(-pi,pi]. In particular, the joint distribution of the diagonal
elements of a generalized quadratic form XAX' with n independent normally
distributed column vectors in X is obtained. For a single p-variate gamma
distribution function (p-1)-variate integrals over Cp-1 are derived. The
integrals are numerically more favourable than integrals obtained from the
Fourier or laplace inversion formula.
  The interference channel with degraded message sets (IC-DMS) refers to a
communication model in which two senders attempt to communicate with their
respective receivers simultaneously through a common medium, and one of the
senders has complete and a priori (non-causal) knowledge about the message
being transmitted by the other. A coding scheme that collectively has
advantages of cooperative coding, collaborative coding, and dirty paper coding,
is developed for such a channel. With resorting to this coding scheme,
achievable rate regions of the IC-DMS in both discrete memoryless and Gaussian
cases are derived, which, in general, include several previously known rate
regions. Numerical examples for the Gaussian case demonstrate that in the
high-interference-gain regime, the derived achievable rate regions offer
considerable improvements over these existing results.
  A subset $X$ of an abelian $G$ is said to be {\em complete} if every element
of the subgroup generated by $X$ can be expressed as a nonempty sum of distinct
elements from $X$.
  Let $A\subset \Z_n$ be such that all the elements of $A$ are coprime with
$n$. Solving a conjecture of Erd\H{o}s and Heilbronn, Olson proved that
  $A$ is complete if $n$ is a prime and if $|A|>2\sqrt{n}.$
  Recently Vu proved that there is an absolute constant $c$, such that for an
arbitrary large $n$, $A$ is complete if $|A|\ge c\sqrt{n},$ and conjectured
that 2 is essentially the right value of $c$. We show that $A$ is complete if
$|A|> 1+2\sqrt{n-4}$, thus proving the last conjecture.
  A solution is given to the following problem: how to compute the
multiplicity, or more generally the Hilbert function, at a point on a Schubert
variety in an orthogonal Grassmannian. Standard monomial theory is applied to
translate the problem from geometry to combinatorics. The solution of the
resulting combinatorial problem forms the bulk of the paper. This approach has
been followed earlier to solve the same problem for the Grassmannian and the
symplectic Grassmannian.
  As an application, we present an interpretation of the multiplicity as the
number of non-intersecting lattice paths of a certain kind.
  Taking the Schubert variety to be of a special kind and the point to be the
"identity coset," our problem specializes to a problem about Pfaffian ideals
treatments of which by different methods exist in the literature. Also
available in the literature is a geometric solution when the point is a
"generic singularity."
  Erd\"{o}s and Tur\'{a}n once conjectured that any set $A\subset\mathbb{N}$
with $\sum_{a\in A}{1}/{a}=\infty$ should contain infinitely many progressions
of arbitrary length $k\geq3$. For the two-dimensional case Graham conjectured
that if $B\subset \mathbb{N}\times\mathbb{N}$ satisfies $$\sum\limits_{(x,y)\in
B}\frac{1}{x^2+y^2}=\infty,$$ then for any $s\geq2$, $B$ contains an $s\times
s$ axes-parallel grid. In this paper it is shown that if the Graham conjecture
is true for some $s\geq2$, then the Erd\"{o}s-Tur\'{a}n conjecture is true for
$k=2s-1$.
  Let $(A,\Theta)$ be a principally polarised abelian variety, and let Y be a
subvariety. Pareschi and Popa conjectured that Y has minimal cohomology class
if and only if the structure sheaf of Y satisfies a property that they call
M-regularity.
  Let now X be a smooth cubic threefold. By a classical result due to Clemens
and Griffiths, its intermediate Jacobian J(X) is a principally polarised
abelian variety; furthermore the Fano surface of lines on X can be embedded in
J(X) and has minimal cohomology class. In this short note we show that its
structure sheaf is M-regular.
  The spectral action on noncommutative torus is obtained, using a
Chamseddine--Connes formula via computations of zeta functions. The importance
of a Diophantine condition is outlined. Several results on holomorphic
continuation of series of holomorphic functions are obtained in this context.
  We rigorously derive a weak form of the Lifshitz-Slyozov-Wagner equation as
the homogenization limit of a Stefan-type problem describing
reaction-controlled coarsening of a large number of small spherical particles.
Moreover, we deduce that the effective mean-field description holds true in the
particular limit of vanishing surface-area density of particles.
  We introduce a new class of canonical AZD's (called the supercanonical AZD's)
on the canonical bundles of smooth projective varieties with pseudoeffective
canonical classes. We study the variation of the supercanonical AZD
$\hat{h}_{can}$ under projective deformations and give a new proof of the
invariance of plurigenera.
  We consider a model for interest rates, where the short rate is given by a
time-homogenous, one-dimensional affine process in the sense of Duffie,
Filipovic and Schachermayer. We show that in such a model yield curves can only
be normal, inverse or humped (i.e. endowed with a single local maximum). Each
case can be characterized by simple conditions on the present short rate. We
give conditions under which the short rate process will converge to a limit
distribution and describe the limit distribution in terms of its cumulant
generating function. We apply our results to the Vasicek model, the CIR model,
a CIR model with added jumps and a model of Ornstein-Uhlenbeck type.
  Let $G$ be a finite group and $V$ be a finite $G$--module. We present upper
bounds for the cardinalities of certain subsets of $\Irr(GV)$, such as the set
of those $\chi\in\Irr(GV)$ such that, for a fixed $v\in V$, the restriction of
$\chi$ to $<v>$ is not a multiple of the regular character of $<v>$. These
results might be useful in attacking the non--coprime $k(GV)$--problem.
  We consider statistical mechanics models of continuous height effective
interfaces in the presence of a delta-pinning at height zero. There is a
detailed mathematical understanding of the depinning transition in 2 dimensions
without disorder. Then the variance of the interface height w.r.t. the Gibbs
measure stays bounded uniformly in the volume for any positive pinning force
and diverges like the logarithm of the pinning force when it tends to zero.
  How does the presence of a quenched disorder term in the Hamiltonian modify
this transition? We show that an arbitarily weak random field term is enough to
beat an arbitrarily strong delta-pinning in 2 dimensions and will cause
delocalization. The proof is based on a rigorous lower bound for the overlap
between local magnetizations and random fields in finite volume. In 2
dimensions it implies growth faster than the volume which is a contradiction to
localization. We also derive a simple complementary inequality which shows that
in higher dimensions the fraction of pinned sites converges to one when the
pinning force tends to infinity.
  Let $\Dh$ and $A$ be unital and separable $C^{*}$-algebras; let $\Dh$ be
strongly self-absorbing. It is known that any two unital $^*$-homomorphisms
from $\Dh$ to $A \otimes \Dh$ are approximately unitarily equivalent. We show
that, if $\Dh$ is also $K_{1}$-injective, they are even asymptotically
unitarily equivalent. This in particular implies that any unital endomorphism
of $\Dh$ is asymptotically inner. Moreover, the space of automorphisms of $\Dh$
is compactly-contractible (in the point-norm topology) in the sense that for
any compact Hausdorff space $X$, the set of homotopy classes $[X,\Aut(\Dh)]$
reduces to a point. The respective statement holds for the space of unital
endomorphisms of $\Dh$. As an application, we give a description of the
Kasparov group $KK(\Dh, A\ot \Dh)$ in terms of $^*$-homomorphisms and
asymptotic unitary equivalence. Along the way, we show that the Kasparov group
$KK(\Dh, A\ot \Dh)$ is isomorphic to $K_0(A\ot \Dh)$.
  A new expression as a certain asymptotic limit via "discrete micro-states" of
permutations is provided to the mutual information of both continuous and
discrete random variables.
  We present an algorithm for systematic encoding of Hermitian codes. For a
Hermitian code defined over GF(q^2), the proposed algorithm achieves a run time
complexity of O(q^2) and is suitable for VLSI implementation. The encoder
architecture uses as main blocks q varying-rate Reed-Solomon encoders and
achieves a space complexity of O(q^2) in terms of finite field multipliers and
memory elements.
  We consider the curvature of a family of warped products of two
pseduo-Riemannian manifolds $(B,g_B)$ and $(F,g_F)$ furnished with metrics of
the form $c^{2}g_B \oplus w^2 g_F$ and, in particular, of the type $w^{2
\mu}g_B \oplus w^2 g_F$, where $c, w \colon B \to (0,\infty)$ are smooth
functions and $\mu$ is a real parameter. We obtain suitable expressions for the
Ricci tensor and scalar curvature of such products that allow us to establish
results about the existence of Einstein or constant scalar curvature structures
in these categories. If $(B,g_B)$ is Riemannian, the latter question involves
nonlinear elliptic partial differential equations with concave-convex
nonlinearities and singular partial differential equations of the
Lichnerowicz-York type among others.
  This is a final step in a local classification of pseudo-Riemannian manifolds
with parallel Weyl tensor that are not conformally flat or locally symmetric.
  We introduce a new class of "random" subsets of natural numbers, WM sets.
This class contains normal sets (sets whose characteristic function is a normal
binary sequence). We establish necessary and sufficient conditions for
solvability of systems of linear equations within every WM set and within every
normal set. We also show that partition-regular system of linear equations with
integer coefficients is solvable in any WM set.
  We study birational maps with empty base locus defined by almost complete
intersection ideals. Birationality is shown to be expressed by the equality of
two Chern numbers. We provide a relatively effective method of their
calculation in terms of certain Hilbert coefficients. In dimension two the
structure of the irreducible ideals leads naturally to the calculation of
Sylvester determinants via a computer-assisted method. For degree at most 5 we
produce the full set of defining equations of the base ideal. The results
answer affirmatively some questions raised by D. Cox.
  We prove an Alexander type theorem for the spectral unit ball $\Omega_n$
showing that there are no non-trivial proper holomorphic mappings in
$\Omega_n$, $n\geq 2$.
  Consider the family S of irreducible plane curves of degree n with d nodes
and k cusps as singularities. Let W be an irreducible component of S. We
consider the natural rational map from W to the moduli space of curves of genus
g=(n-1)(n-2)/2-d-k. We define the "number of moduli of W" as the dimension of
the image of W with respect to this map. If W has the expected dimension equal
to 3n+g-1-k, then the number of moduli of W is at most equal to the min(3g-3,
3g-3+\rho-k), dove \rho is the Brill-Neother number of the linear series of
degree n and dimension 2 on a smooth curve of genus g. We say that W has the
expected number of moduli if the equality holds. In this paper we construct
examples of families of irreducible plane curves with nodes and cusps as
singularities having expected number of moduli and with non-positive
Brill-Noether number.
  If $\mu$ is a finite complex measure in the complex plane $\C$ we denote by
$C^\mu$ its Cauchy integral defined in the sense of principal value. The
measure $\mu$ is called reflectionless if it is continuous (has no atoms) and
$C^\mu=0$ at $\mu$-almost every point. We show that if $\mu$ is reflectionless
and its Cauchy maximal function $C^\mu_*$ is summable with respect to $|\mu|$
then $\mu$ is trivial. An example of a reflectionless measure whose maximal
function belongs to the "weak" $L^1$ is also constructed, proving that the
above result is sharp in its scale. We also give a partial geometric
description of the set of reflectionless measures on the line and discuss
connections of our results with the notion of sets of finite perimeter in the
sense of De Giorgi.
  Let S be the variety of irreducible sextics with six cusps as singularities.
Let W be one of irreducible components of W. Denoting by M_4 the space of
moduli of smooth curves of genus 4, the moduli map of W is the rational map
from W to M_4 sending the general point of W, corresponding to a plane curve D,
to the point of M_4 parametrizing the normalization curve of D. The number of
moduli of W is, by definition the dimension of the image of W with respect to
the moduli map. We know that this number is at most equal to seven. In this
paper we prove that both irreducible components of S have number of moduli
exactly equal to seven.
  We construct several difference families on cyclic groups of orders 47 and
97, and use them to construct skew-Hadamard matrices of orders 188 and 388.
Such difference families and matrices are constructed here for the first time.
The matrices are constructed by using the Goethals-Seidel array.
  A celebrated result of F. Jaeger states that the Tutte polynomial of a planar
graph is determined by the HOMFLY polynomial of an associated link. Here we are
interested in the converse of this result. We consider the question `to what
extent does the Tutte polynomial determine the HOMFLY polynomial of any knot?'
We show that the HOMFLY polynomial of a knot is determined by Tutte polynomials
of plane graphs associated to the knot.
  We study quivers with relations given by non-commutative analogs of Jacobian
ideals in the complete path algebra. This framework allows us to give a
representation-theoretic interpretation of quiver mutations at arbitrary
vertices. This gives a far-reaching generalization of
Bernstein-Gelfand-Ponomarev reflection functors. The motivations for this work
come from several sources: superpotentials in physics, Calabi-Yau algebras,
cluster algebras.
  We study more general variational problems on time scales. Previous results
are generalized by proving necessary optimality conditions for (i) variational
problems involving delta derivatives of more than the first order, and (ii)
problems of the calculus of variations with delta-differential side conditions
(Lagrange problem of the calculus of variations on time scales).
  Under some positivity assumptions, extension properties of rationally
connected fibrations from a submanifold to its ambient variety are studied.
Given a family of rational curves on a complex projective manifold X inducing a
covering family on a submanifold Y with ample normal bundle in X, the main
results relate, under suitable conditions, the associated rational connected
fiber structures on X and on Y. Applications of these results include an
extension theorem for Mori contractions of fiber type and a classification
theorem in the case Y has a structure of projective bundle or quadric
fibration.
  Let $\Goo$ be a semisimple real Lie group with unitary dual $\Ghat$. The goal
of this note is to produce new upper bounds for the multiplicities with which
representations $\pi \in \Ghat$ of cohomological type appear in certain spaces
of cusp forms on $\Goo$.
  We consider the defocusing, $\dot{H}^1$-critical Hartree equation for the
radial data in all dimensions $(n\geq 5)$. We show the global well-posedness
and scattering results in the energy space. The new ingredient in this paper is
that we first take advantage of the term $\displaystyle - \int_{I}\int_{|x|\leq
A|I|^{1/2}}|u|^{2}\Delta \Big(\frac{1}{|x|}\Big)dxdt$ in the localized Morawetz
identity to rule out the possibility of energy concentration, instead of the
classical Morawetz estimate dependent of the nonlinearity.
  The notion of topological free entropy dimension of $n-$tuples of elements in
a unital C$^*$ algebra was introduced by Voiculescu. In the paper, we compute
topological free entropy dimension of one self-adjoint element and topological
orbit dimension of one self-adjoint element in a unital C$^*$ algebra.
Moreover, we calculate the values of topological free entropy dimensions of
families of generators of some unital C$^*$ algebras (for example: irrational
rotation C$^*$ algebras or minimal tensor product of two reduced C$^*$ algebras
of free groups).
  We give an extended review of recent work on the extended weak coupling
limit. Background material on completely positive semigroups and their unitary
dilations is given, as well as a particularly easy construction of `quadratic
noises'.
  The problem of statistical learning is to construct a predictor of a random
variable $Y$ as a function of a related random variable $X$ on the basis of an
i.i.d. training sample from the joint distribution of $(X,Y)$. Allowable
predictors are drawn from some specified class, and the goal is to approach
asymptotically the performance (expected loss) of the best predictor in the
class. We consider the setting in which one has perfect observation of the
$X$-part of the sample, while the $Y$-part has to be communicated at some
finite bit rate. The encoding of the $Y$-values is allowed to depend on the
$X$-values. Under suitable regularity conditions on the admissible predictors,
the underlying family of probability distributions and the loss function, we
give an information-theoretic characterization of achievable predictor
performance in terms of conditional distortion-rate functions. The ideas are
illustrated on the example of nonparametric regression in Gaussian noise.
  Every finite branch solutions to the sixth Painleve equation around a fixed
singular point is an algebraic branch solution. In particular a global solution
is an algebraic solution if and only if it is finitely many-valued globally.
The proof of this result relies on algebraic geometry of Painleve VI,
Riemann-Hilbert correspondence, geometry and dynamics on cubic surfaces,
resolutions of Kleinian singularities, and power geometry of algebraic
differential equations. In the course of the proof we are also able to classify
all finite branch solutions up to Backlund transformations.
  In this paper we give a generalization of Chebyshev polynomials and using
this we describe the M\"obius function of the generalized subword order from a
poset {a1,...as,c |ai<c}, which contains an affirmative answer for the
conjecture by Bj\"orner, Sagan, Vatter.[5,10]
  This paper is devoted to describe the finite-dimensionality of a
two-dimensional micropolar fluid flow with periodic boundary conditions. We
define the notions of determining modes and nodes and estimate the number of
them, we also estimate the dimension of the global attractor. Finally we
compare our results with analogous results for Navier-Stokes equation.
  The rotor-router model is a deterministic analogue of random walk. It can be
used to define a deterministic growth model analogous to internal DLA. We prove
that the asymptotic shape of this model is a Euclidean ball, in a sense which
is stronger than our earlier work. For the shape consisting of $n=\omega_d r^d$
sites, where $\omega_d$ is the volume of the unit ball in $\R^d$, we show that
the inradius of the set of occupied sites is at least $r-O(\log r)$, while the
outradius is at most $r+O(r^\alpha)$ for any $\alpha > 1-1/d$. For a related
model, the divisible sandpile, we show that the domain of occupied sites is a
Euclidean ball with error in the radius a constant independent of the total
mass. For the classical abelian sandpile model in two dimensions, with $n=\pi
r^2$ particles, we show that the inradius is at least $r/\sqrt{3}$, and the
outradius is at most $(r+o(r))/\sqrt{2}$. This improves on bounds of Le Borgne
and Rossin. Similar bounds apply in higher dimensions.
  We study a heavy piston of mass $M$ that moves in one dimension. The piston
separates two gas chambers, each of which contains finitely many ideal, unit
mass gas particles moving in $d$ dimensions, where $ d\geq 1$. Using averaging
techniques, we prove that the actual motions of the piston converge in
probability to the predicted averaged behavior on the time scale $M^ {1/2} $
when $M$ tends to infinity while the total energy of the system is bounded and
the number of gas particles is fixed. Neishtadt and Sinai previously pointed
out that an averaging theorem due to Anosov should extend to this situation.
  When $ d=1$, the gas particles move in just one dimension, and we prove that
the rate of convergence of the actual motions of the piston to its averaged
behavior is $\mathcal{O} (M^ {-1/2}) $ on the time scale $M^ {1/2} $. The
convergence is uniform over all initial conditions in a compact set. We also
investigate the piston system when the particle interactions have been
smoothed. The convergence to the averaged behavior again takes place uniformly,
both over initial conditions and over the amount of smoothing.
  In addition, we prove generalizations of our results to $N$ pistons
separating $N+1$ gas chambers. We also provide a general discussion of
averaging theory and the proofs of a number of previously known averaging
results. In particular, we include a new proof of Anosov's averaging theorem
for smooth systems that is primarily due to Dolgopyat.
  We construct a new random probability measure on the sphere and on the unit
interval which in both cases has a Gibbs structure with the relative entropy
functional as Hamiltonian. It satisfies a quasi-invariance formula with respect
to the action of smooth diffeomorphism of the sphere and the interval
respectively. The associated integration by parts formula is used to construct
two classes of diffusion processes on probability measures (on the sphere or
the unit interval) by Dirichlet form methods. The first one is closely related
to Malliavin's Brownian motion on the homeomorphism group. The second one is a
probability valued stochastic perturbation of the heat flow, whose intrinsic
metric is the quadratic Wasserstein distance. It may be regarded as the
canonical diffusion process on the Wasserstein space.
  This paper is devoted to the analysis of a second order method for recovering
the \emph{a priori} unknown shape of an inclusion $\omega$ inside a body
$\Omega$ from boundary measurement. This inverse problem - known as electrical
impedance tomography - has many important practical applications and hence has
focussed much attention during the last years. However, to our best knowledge,
no work has yet considered a second order approach for this problem. This paper
aims to fill that void: we investigate the existence of second order derivative
of the state $u$ with respect to perturbations of the shape of the interface
$\partial\omega$, then we choose a cost function in order to recover the
geometry of $\partial \omega$ and derive the expression of the derivatives
needed to implement the corresponding Newton method. We then investigate the
stability of the process and explain why this inverse problem is severely
ill-posed by proving the compactness of the Hessian at the global minimizer.
  We consider maximum solution $g(t)$, $t\in [0, +\infty)$, to the normalized
Ricci flow. Among other things, we prove that, if $(M, \omega) $ is a smooth
compact symplectic 4-manifold such that $b_2^+(M)>1$ and let
$g(t),t\in[0,\infty)$, be a solution to (1.3) on $M$ whose Ricci curvature
satisfies that $|\text{Ric}(g(t))|\leq 3$ and additionally $\chi(M)=3 \tau
(M)>0$, then there exists an $m\in \mathbb{N}$, and a sequence of points
$\{x_{j,k}\in M\}$, $j=1, ..., m$, satisfying that, by passing to a
subsequence, $$(M, g(t_{k}+t), x_{1,k},..., x_{m,k})
\stackrel{d_{GH}}\longrightarrow (\coprod_{j=1}^m N_j, g_{\infty},
x_{1,\infty}, ...,, x_{m,\infty}),$$ $t\in [0, \infty)$, in the $m$-pointed
Gromov-Hausdorff sense for any sequence $t_{k}\longrightarrow \infty$, where
$(N_{j}, g_{\infty})$, $j=1,..., m$, are complete complex hyperbolic orbifolds
of complex dimension 2 with at most finitely many isolated orbifold points.
Moreover, the convergence is $C^{\infty}$ in the non-singular part of
$\coprod_1^m N_{j}$ and
$\text{Vol}_{g_{0}}(M)=\sum_{j=1}^{m}\text{Vol}_{g_{\infty}}(N_{j})$, where
$\chi(M)$ (resp. $\tau(M)$) is the Euler characteristic (resp. signature) of
$M$.
  We discuss the asymptotic behaviour of models of lattice polygons, mainly on
the square lattice. In particular, we focus on limiting area laws in the
uniform perimeter ensemble where, for fixed perimeter, each polygon of a given
area occurs with the same probability. We relate limit distributions to the
scaling behaviour of the associated perimeter and area generating functions,
thereby providing a geometric interpretation of scaling functions. To a major
extent, this article is a pedagogic review of known results.
  We present a Lohner type algorithm for the computation of rigorous bounds for
solutions of ordinary differential equations and its derivatives with respect
to initial conditions up to arbitrary order. As an application we prove the
existence of multiple invariant tori around some elliptic periodic orbits for
the pendulum equation with periodic forcing and for Michelson system.
  In this paper, the notion of {\em $p$-adic multiresolution analysis (MRA)} is
introduced. We use a ``natural'' refinement equation whose solution (a
refinable function) is the characteristic function of the unit disc. This
equation reflects the fact that the characteristic function of the unit disc is
the sum of $p$ characteristic functions of disjoint discs of radius $p^{-1}$.
The case $p=2$ is studied in detail. Our MRA is a 2-adic analog of the real
Haar MRA. But in contrast to the real setting, the refinable function
generating our Haar MRA is periodic with period 1, which never holds for real
refinable functions. This fact implies that there exist infinity many different
2-adic orthonormal wavelet bases in ${\cL}^2(\bQ_2)$ generated by the same Haar
MRA. All of these bases are constructed. Since $p$-adic pseudo-differential
operators are closely related to wavelet-type bases, our bases can be
intensively used for applications.
  We compute the loss of power in likelihood ratio tests when we test the
original parameter of a probability density extended by the first Lehmann
alternative.
  We apply results of Malliavin-Thalmaier-Watanabe for strong and weak Taylor
expansions of solutions of perturbed stochastic differential equations (SDEs).
In particular, we work out weight expressions for the Taylor coefficients of
the expansion. The results are applied to LIBOR market models in order to deal
with the typical stochastic drift and with stochastic volatility. In contrast
to other accurate methods like numerical schemes for the full SDE, we obtain
easily tractable expressions for accurate pricing. In particular, we present an
easily tractable alternative to ``freezing the drift'' in LIBOR market models,
which has an accuracy similar to the full numerical scheme. Numerical examples
underline the results.
  In this paper we consider successive iterations of the first-order
differential operations in space ${\bf R}^3.$
  In this paper we present a recurrent relation for counting meaningful
compositions of the higher-order differential operations on the space $R^{n}$
(n=3,4,...) and extract the non-trivial compositions of order higher than two.
  We provide several equivalent characterizations of Kobayashi hyperbolicity in
unbounded convex domains in terms of peak and anti-peak functions at infinity,
affine lines, Bergman metric and iteration theory.
  We give a new procedure in Maple for finding the k-th power of a martix. The
algorithm is based on the article [1].
  Onsager conjectured that weak solutions of the Euler equations for
incompressible fluids in 3D conserve energy only if they have a certain minimal
smoothness, (of order of 1/3 fractional derivatives) and that they dissipate
energy if they are rougher. In this paper we prove that energy is conserved for
velocities in the function space $B^{1/3}_{3,c(\NN)}$. We show that this space
is sharp in a natural sense. We phrase the energy spectrum in terms of the
Littlewood-Paley decomposition and show that the energy flux is controlled by
local interactions. This locality is shown to hold also for the helicity flux;
moreover, every weak solution of the Euler equations that belongs to
$B^{2/3}_{3,c(\NN)}$ conserves helicity. In contrast, in two dimensions, the
strong locality of the enstrophy holds only in the ultraviolet range.
  We introduce a finite volume scheme for the two-dimensional incompressible
Navier-Stokes equations. We use a triangular mesh. The unknowns for the
velocity and pressure are both piecewise constant (colocated scheme). We use a
projection (fractional-step) method to deal with the incompressibility
constraint. We prove that the differential operators in the Navier-Stokes
equations and their discrete counterparts share similar properties. In
particular, we state an inf-sup (Babuska-Brezzi) condition. We infer from it
the stability of the scheme.
  Let $n \geq 2$ be an integer. An \emph{$n$-potent} is an element $e$ of a
ring $R$ such that $e^n = e$. In this paper, we study $n$-potents in matrices
over $R$ and use them to construct an abelian group $K_0^n(R)$. If $A$ is a
complex algebra, there is a group isomorphism $K_0^n(A) \cong
\bigl(K_0(A)\bigr)^{n-1}$ for all $n \geq 2$. However, for algebras over
cyclotomic fields, this is not true in general. We consider $K_0^n$ as a
covariant functor, and show that it is also functorial for a generalization of
homomorphism called an \emph{$n$-homomorphism}.
  Let $X$ be an equivariant embedding of a connected reductive group $G$ over
an algebraically closed field $k$ of positive characteristic. Let $B$ denote a
Borel subgroup of $G$. A $G$-Schubert variety in $X$ is a subvariety of the
form $\diag(G) \cdot V$, where $V$ is a $B \times B$-orbit closure in $X$. In
the case where $X$ is the wonderful compactification of a group of adjoint
type, the $G$-Schubert varieties are the closures of Lusztig's $G$-stable
pieces. We prove that $X$ admits a Frobenius splitting which is compatible with
all $G$-Schubert varieties. Moreover, when $X$ is smooth, projective and
toroidal, then any $G$-Schubert variety in $X$ admits a stable Frobenius
splitting along an ample divisors. Although this indicates that $G$-Schubert
varieties have nice singularities we present an example of a non-normal
$G$-Schubert variety in the wonderful compactification of a group of type
$G_2$. Finally we also extend the Frobenius splitting results to the more
general class of $\mathcal R$-Schubert varieties.
  We introduce a finite volume scheme for the two-dimensional incompressible
Navier-Stokes equations. We use a triangular mesh. The unknowns for the
velocity and pressure are respectively piecewise constant and affine. We use a
projection method to deal with the incompressibility constraint. We show that
the differential operators in the Navier-Stokes equations and their discrete
counterparts share similar properties. In particular we state an inf-sup
(Babuska-Brezzi) condition. Using these properties we infer the stability of
the scheme.
  We consider a finite volume scheme for the two-dimensional incompressible
Navier-Stokes equations. We use a triangular mesh. The unknowns for the
velocity and pressure are respectively piecewise constant and affine. We use a
projection method to deal with the incompressibility constraint. In a former
paper, the stability of the scheme has been proven. We infer from it its
convergence.
  We introduce a density tensor hierarchy for open system dynamics, that
recovers information about fluctuations lost in passing to the reduced density
matrix. For the case of fluctuations arising from a classical probability
distribution, the hierarchy is formed from expectations of products of pure
state density matrix elements, and can be compactly summarized by a simple
generating function. For the case of quantum fluctuations arising when a
quantum system interacts with a quantum environment in an overall pure state,
the corresponding hierarchy is defined as the environmental trace of products
of system matrix elements of the full density matrix. Only the lowest member of
the quantum noise hierarchy is directly experimentally measurable. The unit
trace and idempotence properties of the pure state density matrix imply descent
relations for the tensor hierarchies, that relate the order $n$ tensor, under
contraction of appropriate pairs of tensor indices, to the order $n-1$ tensor.
As examples to illustrate the classical probability distribution formalism, we
consider a quantum system evolving by It\^o stochastic and by jump process
Schr\"odinger equations. As examples to illustrate the corresponding trace
formalism in the quantum fluctuation case, we consider collisional Brownian
motion of an infinite mass Brownian particle, and the weak coupling Born-Markov
master equation. In different specializations, the latter gives the hierarchies
generalizing the quantum optical master equation and the Caldeira--Leggett
master equation. As a further application of the density tensor, we contrast
stochastic Schr\"odinger equations that reduce and that do not reduce the state
vector, and discuss why a quantum system coupled to a quantum environment
behaves like the latter.
  In a 2002 paper, the authors and Bruner used the new spectrum tmf to obtain
some new nonimmersions of real projective spaces. In this note, we
complete/correct two oversights in that paper.
  The first is to note that in that paper a general nonimmersion result was
stated which yielded new nonimmersions for RP^n with n as small as 48, and yet
it was stated there that the first new result occurred when n=1536. Here we
give a simple proof of those overlooked results.
  Secondly, we fill in a gap in the proof of the 2002 paper. There it was
claimed that an axial map f must satisfy f^*(X)=X_1+X_2. We realized recently
that this is not clear. However, here we show that it is true up multiplication
by a unit in the appropriate ring, and so we retrieve all the nonimmersion
results claimed in the original paper.
  Finally, we present a complete determination of tmf^{8*}(RP^\infty\times
RP^\infty) and tmf^*(CP^\infty\times CP^\infty) in positive dimensions.
  We compute temperate fundamental solutions of homogeneous differential
operators with real-principal type symbols. Via analytic continuation of
meromorphic distributions, fundamental solutions for these non-elliptic
operators can be constructed in terms of radial averages and invariant
distributions on the unit sphere.
  This paper develops a contention-based opportunistic feedback technique
towards relay selection in a dense wireless network. This technique enables the
forwarding of additional parity information from the selected relay to the
destination. For a given network, the effects of varying key parameters such as
the feedback probability are presented and discussed. A primary advantage of
the proposed technique is that relay selection can be performed in a
distributed way. Simulation results find its performance to closely match that
of centralized schemes that utilize GPS information, unlike the proposed
method. The proposed relay selection method is also found to achieve throughput
gains over a point-to-point transmission strategy.
  It has been shown that a decentralized relay selection protocol based on
opportunistic feedback from the relays yields good throughput performance in
dense wireless networks. This selection strategy supports a hybrid-ARQ
transmission approach where relays forward parity information to the
destination in the event of a decoding error. Such an approach, however,
suffers a loss compared to centralized strategies that select relays with the
best channel gain to the destination. This paper closes the performance gap by
adding another level of channel feedback to the decentralized relay selection
problem. It is demonstrated that only one additional bit of feedback is
necessary for good throughput performance. The performance impact of varying
key parameters such as the number of relays and the channel feedback threshold
is discussed. An accompanying bit error rate analysis demonstrates the
importance of relay selection.
  Let $ v$ be a smooth vector field on the plane, that is a map from the plane
to the unit circle. We study sufficient conditions for the boundedness of the
Hilbert transform
  \operatorname H_{v, \epsilon}f(x) := \text{p.v.}\int_{-\epsilon}^ \epsilon
f(x-yv(x)) \frac{dy}y where $ \epsilon $ is a suitably chosen parameter,
determined by the smoothness properties of the vector field. It is a
conjecture, due to E.\thinspace M.\thinspace Stein, that if $ v$ is Lipschitz,
there is a positive $ \epsilon $ for which the transform above is bounded on $
L ^{2}$. Our principal result gives a sufficient condition in terms of the
boundedness of a maximal function associated to $ v$. This sufficient condition
is that this new maximal function be bounded on some $ L ^{p}$, for some $
1<p<2$. We show that the maximal function is bounded from $ L ^{2}$ to weak $ L
^{2}$ for all Lipschitz maximal function. The relationship between our results
and other known sufficient conditions is explored.
  We report on some recent results concerning the dynamics of Bose-Einstein
condensates, obtained in a series of joint papers with L. Erdos and H.-T. Yau.
Starting from many body quantum dynamics, we present a rigorous derivation of a
cubic nonlinear Schroedinger equation known as the Gross-Pitaevskii equation
for the time evolution of the condensate wave function.
  The classical Littlewood-Richardson coefficients C(lambda,mu,nu) carry a
natural $S_3$ symmetry via permutation of the indices. Our "carton rule" for
computing these numbers transparently and uniformly explains these six
symmetries; previously formulated Littlewood-Richardson rules manifest at most
three of the six.
  Deformations of the 3-differential of 3-differential graded algebras are
controlled by the (3,N) Maurer-Cartan equation. We find explicit formulae for
the coefficients appearing in that equation, introduce new geometric examples
of N-differential graded algebras, and use these results to study N Lie
algebroids.
  We assess the practicality of random network coding by illuminating the issue
of overhead and considering it in conjunction with increasingly long packets
sent over the erasure channel. We show that the transmission of increasingly
long packets, consisting of either of an increasing number of symbols per
packet or an increasing symbol alphabet size, results in a data rate
approaching zero over the erasure channel. This result is due to an erasure
probability that increases with packet length. Numerical results for a
particular modulation scheme demonstrate a data rate of approximately zero for
a large, but finite-length packet. Our results suggest a reduction in the
performance gains offered by random network coding.
  By using tools of time-frequency analysis, we obtain some improved local
well-posedness results for the NLS, NLW and NLKG equations with Cauchy data in
modulation spaces $M{p, 1}_{0,s}$.
  A new Z-basis for the space of quasisymmetric functions (QSym, for short) is
presented. It is shown to have nonnegative structure constants, and several
interesting properties relative to the space of quasisymmetric functions
associated to matroids by the Hopf algebra morphism (F) of Billera, Jia, and
Reiner. In particular, for loopless matroids, this basis reflects the grading
by matroid rank, as well as by the size of the ground set. It is shown that the
morphism F is injective on the set of rank two matroids, and that
decomposability of the quasisymmetric function of a rank two matroid mirrors
the decomposability of its base polytope. An affirmative answer is given to the
Hilbert basis question raised by Billera, Jia, and Reiner.
  We study universal compression of sequences generated by monotonic
distributions. We show that for a monotonic distribution over an alphabet of
size $k$, each probability parameter costs essentially $0.5 \log (n/k^3)$ bits,
where $n$ is the coded sequence length, as long as $k = o(n^{1/3})$. Otherwise,
for $k = O(n)$, the total average sequence redundancy is $O(n^{1/3+\epsilon})$
bits overall. We then show that there exists a sub-class of monotonic
distributions over infinite alphabets for which redundancy of
$O(n^{1/3+\epsilon})$ bits overall is still achievable. This class contains
fast decaying distributions, including many distributions over the integers and
geometric distributions. For some slower decays, including other distributions
over the integers, redundancy of $o(n)$ bits overall is achievable, where a
method to compute specific redundancy rates for such distributions is derived.
The results are specifically true for finite entropy monotonic distributions.
Finally, we study individual sequence redundancy behavior assuming a sequence
is governed by a monotonic distribution. We show that for sequences whose
empirical distributions are monotonic, individual redundancy bounds similar to
those in the average case can be obtained. However, even if the monotonicity in
the empirical distribution is violated, diminishing per symbol individual
sequence redundancies with respect to the monotonic maximum likelihood
description length may still be achievable.
  This note is devoted to the definition of moduli spaces of rational tropical
curves with n marked points. We show that this space has a structure of a
smooth tropical variety of dimension n-3. We define the Deligne-Mumford
compactification of this space and tropical $\psi$-class divisors.
  For k a field of arbitrary characteristic, and R a k-algebra, we show that
the PI degree of an iterated skew polynomial ring
R[x_1;\tau_1,\delta_1]...b[x_n;\tau_n,\delta_n] agrees with the PI degree of
R[x_1;\tau_1]...b[x_n;\tau_n] when each (\tau_i,\delta_i) satisfies a q_i-skew
relation for q_i \in k^{\times} and extends to a higher q_i-skew
\tau_i-derivation. We confirm the quantum Gel'fand-Kirillov conjecture for
various quantized coordinate rings, and calculate their PI degrees. We extend
these results to completely prime factor algebras.
  A local growth algorithm for a decagonal quasicrystal is presented. We show
that a perfect Penrose tiling (PPT) layer can be grown on a decapod tiling
layer by a three dimensional (3D) local rule growth. Once a PPT layer begins to
form on the upper layer, successive 2D PPT layers can be added on top resulting
in a perfect decagonal quasicrystalline structure in bulk with a point defect
only on the bottom surface layer. Our growth rule shows that an ideal
quasicrystal structure can be constructed by a local growth algorithm in 3D,
contrary to the necessity of non-local information for a 2D PPT growth.
  In the first section of this paper we prove a theorem for the number of
columns of a rectangular area that are identical to the given one. In the next
section we apply this theorem to derive several combinatorial identities by
counting specified subsets of a finite set.
  This paper studies normalized Ricci flow on a nonparabolic surface, whose
scalar curvature is asymptotically -1 in an integral sense. By a method
initiated by R. Hamilton, the flow is shown to converge to a metric of constant
scalar curvature -1. A relative estimate of Green's function is proved as a
tool.
  We study the relationship between transfinite diameter, Chebyshev constant
and Wiener energy in the abstract linear potential analytic setting pioneered
by Choquet, Fuglede and Ohtsuka. It turns out that, whenever the potential
theoretic kernel has the maximum principle, then all these quantities are equal
for all compact sets. For continuous kernels even the converse statement is
true: if the Chebyshev constant of any compact set coincides with its
transfinite diameter, the kernel must satisfy the maximum principle. An
abundance of examples is provided to show the sharpness of the results.
  Let $X$ be a compact K\"ahler manifold and $\om$ a smooth closed form of
bidegree $(1,1)$ which is nonnegative and big. We study the classes ${\mathcal
E}_{\chi}(X,\om)$ of $\om$-plurisubharmonic functions of finite weighted
Monge-Amp\`ere energy. When the weight $\chi$ has fast growth at infinity, the
corresponding functions are close to be bounded.
  We show that if a positive Radon measure is suitably dominated by the
Monge-Amp\`ere capacity, then it belongs to the range of the Monge-Amp\`ere
operator on some class ${\mathcal E}_{\chi}(X,\om)$. This is done by
establishing a priori estimates on the capacity of sublevel sets of the
solutions.
  Our result extends U.Cegrell's and S.Kolodziej's results and puts them into a
unifying frame. It also gives a simple proof of S.T.Yau's celebrated a priori
${\mathcal C}^0$-estimate.
  We fully elucidate the structure of the hierarchy of the connected operators
that commute with the Markov matrix of the Totally Asymmetric Exclusion Process
(TASEP). We prove for the connected operators a combinatorial formula that was
conjectured in a previous work. Our derivation is purely algebraic and relies
on the algebra generated by the local jump operators involved in the TASEP.
  Keywords: Non-Equilibrium Statistical Mechanics, ASEP, Exact Results,
Algebraic Bethe Ansatz.
  We give general spectral and eigenvalue perturbation bounds for a selfadjoint
operator perturbed in the sense of the pseudo-Friedrichs extension. We also
give several generalisations of the aforementioned extension. The spectral
bounds for finite eigenvalues are obtained by using analyticity and
monotonicity properties (rather than variational principles) and they are
general enough to include eigenvalues in gaps of the essential spectrum.
  For a smooth projective curve, the cycles of e-secant k-planes are among the
most studied objects in classical enumerative geometry and there are well-known
formulas due to Castelnuovo, Cayley and MacDonald concerning them. Despite
various attempts, surprisingly little is known about the enumerative validity
of such formulas. The aim of this paper is to completely clarify this problem
in the case of the generic curve C of given genus. Using degeneration
techniques and a few facts about the birational geometry of moduli spaces of
stable pointed curves we determine precisely under which conditions the cycle
of e-secant k-planes in non-empty and we compute its dimension. We also
precisely determine the dimension of the variety of linear series on C carrying
e-secant k-planes. In a different direction, in the last part of the paper we
study the distribution of ramification points of the powers of a line bundle on
C having prescribed ramification at a given point.
  In this work initial numbers and repunit numbers have been studied. All
numbers have been considered in a decimal notation. The problem of simplicity
of initial numbers has been studied. Interesting properties of numbers repunit
are proved:
  $gcd(R_a, R_b) = R_{gcd(a,b)}$;
  $R_{ab}/(R_aR_b)$ is an integer only if $gcd(a,b) = 1$, where $a\geq1$,
$b\geq1$ are integers. Dividers of numbers repunit, are researched by a degree
of prime number.
  We give an easy counter-example to Problem 7.20 from C. Villani's book on
mass transport: in general, the quadratic Wasserstein distance between $n$-fold
normalized convolutions of two given measures fails to decrease monotonically.
  We first exhibit counterexamples to some open questions related to a theorem
of Sakai.
  Then we establish an extension theorem of Sakai type for separately
holomorphic/meromorphic functions.
  Uniform measures are defined as the functionals on the space of bounded
uniformly continuous functions that are continuous on bounded uniformly
equicontinuous sets. If every cardinal has measure zero then every countably
additive measure is a uniform measure. The functionals sequentially continuous
on bounded uniformly equicontinuous sets are exactly uniform measures on the
separable modification of the underlying uniform space.
  In this article, we describe explicitely the Gorenstein locus of all
minuscule Schubert varieties. This proves a special case of a conjecture of A.
Woo and A. Yong (see math.AG/0603273) on the Gorenstein locus of Schubert
varieties.
  We extend the theory of separately holomorphic mappings between complex
analytic spaces. Our method is based on Poletsky theory of discs, Rosay Theorem
on holomorphic discs and our recent joint-work with Pflug on cross theorems in
dimension 1. It also relies on our new technique of conformal mappings and a
generalization of Siciak's relative extremal function.
  Our approach illustrates the unified character: ``From local informations to
global extensions". Moreover, it avoids systematically the use of the classical
method of doubly orthogonal bases of Bergman type.
  In this paper we study the Metropolis algorithm in connection with two
mean--field spin systems, the so called mean--field Ising model and the
Blume--Emery--Griffiths model. In both this examples the naive choice of
proposal chain gives rise, for some parameters, to a slowly mixing Metropolis
chain, that is a chain whose spectral gap decreases exponentially fast (in the
dimension $N$ of the problem). Here we show how a slight variant in the
proposal chain can avoid this problem, keeping the mean computational cost
similar to the cost of the usual Metropolis. More precisely we prove that, with
a suitable variant in the proposal, the Metropolis chain has a spectral gap
which decreases polynomially in 1/N. Using some symmetry structure of the
energy, the method rests on allowing appropriate jumps within the energy level
of the starting state.
  We define the secondary invariants L^2- eta and -rho forms for families of
generalized Dirac operators on normal coverings of fibre bundles. On the
covering family we assume transversally smooth spectral projections, and
Novikov--Shubin invariants bigger than 3(dim B+1) to treat the large time
asymptotic for general operators. In the particular case of a bundle of spin
manifolds, we study the L^2- rho class in relation to the space of positive
scalar curvature vertical metrics.
  An n-homomorphism between algebras is a linear map $\phi : A \to B$ such that
$\phi(a_1 ... a_n) = \phi(a_1)... \phi(a_n)$ for all elements $a_1, >..., a_n
\in A.$ Every homomorphism is an n-homomorphism, for all n >= 2, but the
converse is false, in general. Hejazian et al. [7] ask: Is every *-preserving
n-homomorphism between C*-algebras continuous? We answer their question in the
affirmative, but the even and odd n arguments are surprisingly disjoint. We
then use these results to prove stronger ones: If n >2 is even, then $\phi$ is
just an ordinary *-homomorphism. If n >= 3 is odd, then $\phi$ is a difference
of two orthogonal *-homomorphisms. Thus, there are no nontrivial *-linear
n-homomorphisms between C*-algebras.
  Cloaking devices are prescriptions of electrostatic, optical or
electromagnetic parameter fields (conductivity $\sigma(x)$, index of refraction
$n(x)$, or electric permittivity $\epsilon(x)$ and magnetic permeability
$\mu(x)$) which are piecewise smooth on $\mathbb R^3$ and singular on a
hypersurface $\Sigma$, and such that objects in the region enclosed by $\Sigma$
are not detectable to external observation by waves. Here, we give related
constructions of invisible tunnels, which allow electromagnetic waves to pass
between possibly distant points, but with only the ends of the tunnels visible
to electromagnetic imaging. Effectively, these change the topology of space
with respect to solutions of Maxwell's equations, corresponding to attaching a
handlebody to $\mathbb R^3$. The resulting devices thus function as
electromagnetic wormholes.
  Conditional independence models in the Gaussian case are algebraic varieties
in the cone of positive definite covariance matrices. We study these varieties
in the case of Bayesian networks, with a view towards generalizing the
recursive factorization theorem to situations with hidden variables. In the
case when the underlying graph is a tree, we show that the vanishing ideal of
the model is generated by the conditional independence statements implied by
graph. We also show that the ideal of any Bayesian network is homogeneous with
respect to a multigrading induced by a collection of upstream random variables.
This has a number of important consequences for hidden variable models.
Finally, we relate the ideals of Bayesian networks to a number of classical
constructions in algebraic geometry including toric degenerations of the
Grassmannian, matrix Schubert varieties, and secant varieties.
  Yang's theorem forbids the process $Z^0 \to 2\gamma$ in any Poincar\'{e}
invariant theory if photons are bosons and their two-particle states transform
under the Poincar\'{e} group in the standard way (under the standard coproduct
of the Poincar\'{e} group). This is an important result as it does not depend
on the assumptions of quantum field theory. Recent work on noncommutative
geometry requires deforming the above coproduct by the Drinfel'd twist. We
prove that $Z^0 \to 2\gamma$ is forbidden for the twisted coproduct as well.
This result is also independent of the assumptions of quantum field theory. As
an illustration of the use of our general formulae, we further show that $Z^0
\to \nu + \nu$ is forbidden for the standard or twisted coproduct of the
Poincar\'{e} group if the neutrino is massless, even if lepton number is not
conserved. This is a special case of our general result that a massive particle
of spin $j$ cannot decay into two identical massless particles of the same
helicity if $j$ is odd, regardless of the coproduct used.
  We prove a variation of Gronwall's lemma.
  We investigate a one-parameter family of probability densities (related to
the Pareto distribution, which describes many natural phenomena) where the
Cramer-Rao inequality provides no information.
  The Katz-Sarnak density conjecture states that, in the limit as the
conductors tend to infinity, the behavior of normalized zeros near the central
point of families of L-functions agree with the N -> oo scaling limits of
eigenvalues near 1 of subgroups of U(N). Evidence for this has been found for
many families by studying the n-level densities; for suitably restricted test
functions the main terms agree with random matrix theory. In particular, all
one-parameter families of elliptic curves with rank r over Q(T) and the same
distribution of signs of functional equations have the same limiting behavior.
We break this universality and find family dependent lower order correction
terms in many cases; these lower order terms have applications ranging from
excess rank to modeling the behavior of zeros near the central point, and
depend on the arithmetic of the family. We derive an alternate form of the
explicit formula for GL(2) L-functions which simplifies comparisons, replacing
sums over powers of Satake parameters by sums of the moments of the Fourier
coefficients lambda_f(p). Our formula highlights the differences that we expect
to exist from families whose Fourier coefficients obey different laws (for
example, we expect Sato-Tate to hold only for non-CM families of elliptic
curves). Further, by the work of Rosen and Silverman we expect lower order
biases to the Fourier coefficients in families of elliptic curves with rank
over Q(T); these biases can be seen in our expansions. We analyze several
families of elliptic curves and see different lower order corrections,
depending on whether or not the family has complex multiplication, a forced
torsion point, or non-zero rank over Q(T).
  We investigate the incremental stability properties of It\^o stochastic
dynamical systems. Specifically, we derive a stochastic version of nonlinear
contraction theory that provides a bound on the mean square distance between
any two trajectories of a stochastically contracting system. This bound can be
expressed as a function of the noise intensity and the contraction rate of the
noise-free system. We illustrate these results in the contexts of stochastic
nonlinear observers design and stochastic synchronization.
  Recently Conrey, Farmer and Zirnbauer conjectured formulas for the averages
over a family of ratios of products of shifted L-functions. Their L-functions
Ratios Conjecture predicts both the main and lower order terms for many
problems, ranging from n-level correlations and densities to mollifiers and
moments to vanishing at the central point. There are now many results showing
agreement between the main terms of number theory and random matrix theory;
however, there are very few families where the lower order terms are known.
These terms often depend on subtle arithmetic properties of the family, and
provide a way to break the universality of behavior. The L-functions Ratios
Conjecture provides a powerful and tractable way to predict these terms. We
test a specific case here, that of the 1-level density for the symplectic
family of quadratic Dirichlet characters arising from even fundamental
discriminants d \le X. For test functions supported in (-1/3, 1/3) we calculate
all the lower order terms up to size O(X^{-1/2+epsilon}) and observe perfect
agreement with the conjecture (for test functions supported in (-1, 1) we show
agreement up to errors of size O(X^{-epsilon}) for any epsilon). Thus for this
family and suitably restricted test functions, we completely verify the Ratios
Conjecture's prediction for the 1-level density.
  Triangular Lie algebras are the Lie algebras which can be faithfully
represented by triangular matrices of any finite size over the real/complex
number field. In the paper invariants ('generalized Casimir operators') are
found for three classes of Lie algebras, namely those which are either strictly
or non-strictly triangular, and for so-called special upper triangular Lie
algebras. Algebraic algorithm of [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., 2006, V.39, 5749;
math-ph/0602046], developed further in [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., 2007, V.40,
113; math-ph/0606045], is used to determine the invariants. A conjecture of [J.
Phys. A: Math. Gen., 2001, V.34, 9085], concerning the number of independent
invariants and their form, is corroborated.
  The confinement problem has been solved in the anisotropic (2+1)-dimensional
SU(N) Yang-Mills theory at weak coupling. In this paper, we find the low-lying
spectrum for N=2. The lightest excitations are pairs of fundamental particles
of the (1+1)-dimensional SU(2)XSU(2) principal chiral sigma model bound in a
linear potential, with a specified matching condition where the particles
overlap. This matching condition can be determined from the exactly-known
S-matrix for the sigma model.
  A polynomial skew product of C^2 is a map of the form f(z,w) = (p(z),
q(z,w)), where p and q are polynomials, such that f is regular of degree d >=
2. For polynomial maps of C, hyperbolicity is equivalent to the condition that
the closure of the postcritical set is disjoint from the Julia set; further,
critical points either iterate to an attracting cycle or infinity. For
polynomial skew products, Jonsson (Math. Ann., 1999) established that f is
Axiom A if and only if the closure of the postcritical set is disjoint from the
right analog of the Julia set. Here we present the analogous conclusion:
critical orbits either escape to infinity or accumulate on an attracting set.
In addition, we construct new examples of Axiom A maps demonstrating various
postcritical behaviors.
  We study fragmentation trees of Gibbs type. In the binary case, we identify
the most general Gibbs-type fragmentation tree with Aldous' beta-splitting
model, which has an extended parameter range $\beta>-2$ with respect to the
${\rm beta}(\beta+1,\beta+1)$ probability distributions on which it is based.
In the multifurcating case, we show that Gibbs fragmentation trees are
associated with the two-parameter Poisson--Dirichlet models for exchangeable
random partitions of $\mathbb {N}$, with an extended parameter range
$0\le\alpha\le1$, $\theta\ge-2\alpha$ and $\alpha<0$, $\theta =-m\alpha$, $m\in
\mathbb {N}$.
  The study of problems of the calculus of variations with compositions is a
quite recent subject with origin in dynamical systems governed by chaotic maps.
Available results are reduced to a generalized Euler-Lagrange equation that
contains a new term involving inverse images of the minimizing trajectories. In
this work we prove a generalization of the necessary optimality condition of
DuBois-Reymond for variational problems with compositions. With the help of the
new obtained condition, a Noether-type theorem is proved. An application of our
main result is given to a problem appearing in the chaotic setting when one
consider maps that are ergodic.
  In a sensor network, in practice, the communication among sensors is subject
to:(1) errors or failures at random times; (3) costs; and(2) constraints since
sensors and networks operate under scarce resources, such as power, data rate,
or communication. The signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is usually a main factor in
determining the probability of error (or of communication failure) in a link.
These probabilities are then a proxy for the SNR under which the links operate.
The paper studies the problem of designing the topology, i.e., assigning the
probabilities of reliable communication among sensors (or of link failures) to
maximize the rate of convergence of average consensus, when the link
communication costs are taken into account, and there is an overall
communication budget constraint. To consider this problem, we address a number
of preliminary issues: (1) model the network as a random topology; (2)
establish necessary and sufficient conditions for mean square sense (mss) and
almost sure (a.s.) convergence of average consensus when network links fail;
and, in particular, (3) show that a necessary and sufficient condition for both
mss and a.s. convergence is for the algebraic connectivity of the mean graph
describing the network topology to be strictly positive. With these results, we
formulate topology design, subject to random link failures and to a
communication cost constraint, as a constrained convex optimization problem to
which we apply semidefinite programming techniques. We show by an extensive
numerical study that the optimal design improves significantly the convergence
speed of the consensus algorithm and can achieve the asymptotic performance of
a non-random network at a fraction of the communication cost.
  We study interacting systems of linear Brownian motions whose drift vector at
every time point is determined by the relative ranks of the coordinate
processes at that time. Our main objective has been to study the long range
behavior of the spacings between the Brownian motions arranged in increasing
order. For finitely many Brownian motions interacting in this manner, we
characterize drifts for which the family of laws of the vector of spacings is
tight, and show its convergence to a unique stationary joint distribution given
by independent exponential distributions with varying means. We also study one
particular countably infinite system, where only the minimum Brownian particle
gets a constant upward drift, and prove that independent and identically
distributed exponential spacings remain stationary under the dynamics of such a
process. Some related conjectures in this direction have also been discussed.
  MIMO technology is one of the most significant advances in the past decade to
increase channel capacity and has a great potential to improve network capacity
for mesh networks. In a MIMO-based mesh network, the links outgoing from each
node sharing the common communication spectrum can be modeled as a Gaussian
vector broadcast channel. Recently, researchers showed that ``dirty paper
coding'' (DPC) is the optimal transmission strategy for Gaussian vector
broadcast channels. So far, there has been little study on how this fundamental
result will impact the cross-layer design for MIMO-based mesh networks. To fill
this gap, we consider the problem of jointly optimizing DPC power allocation in
the link layer at each node and multihop/multipath routing in a MIMO-based mesh
networks. It turns out that this optimization problem is a very challenging
non-convex problem. To address this difficulty, we transform the original
problem to an equivalent problem by exploiting the channel duality. For the
transformed problem, we develop an efficient solution procedure that integrates
Lagrangian dual decomposition method, conjugate gradient projection method
based on matrix differential calculus, cutting-plane method, and subgradient
method. In our numerical example, it is shown that we can achieve a network
performance gain of 34.4% by using DPC.
  We study the Dirichlet problem associated to the equation for self-similar
surfaces for graphs over the Euclidean plane with a disk removed. We show the
existence of a solution provided the boundary conditions on the boundary circle
are small enough and satisfy some symmetries. This is the second step towards
the construction of new examples of complete embedded self similar surfaces
under mean curvature flow.
  We prove that the set of limit groups is recursive, answering a question of
Delzant. One ingredient of the proof is the observation that a finitely
presented group with local retractions (a la Long and Reid) is coherent and,
furthermore, there exists an algorithm that computes presentations for finitely
generated subgroups. The other main ingredient is the ability to
algorithmically calculate centralizers in relatively hyperbolic groups.
Applications include the existence of recognition algorithms for limit groups
and free groups.
  In this paper, we propose a direct solution method for optimal switching
problems of one-dimensional diffusions. This method is free from conjectures
about the form of the value function and switching strategies, or does not
require the proof of optimality through quasi-variational inequalities. The
direct method uses a general theory of optimal stopping problems for
one-dimensional diffusions and characterizes the value function as sets of the
smallest linear majorants in their respective transformed spaces.
  We study the late-time behavior of spherically symmetric solutions of the
Yang-Mills equations on Minkowski and Schwarzschild backgrounds. Using
nonlinear perturbation theory we show in both cases that solutions having
smooth compactly supported initial data posses tails which decay as $t^{-4}$ at
timelike infinity. Moreover, for small initial data on Minkowski background we
derive the third-order formula for the amplitude of the tail and confirm
numerically its accuracy.
  Any medium can be represented as an isometric subgraph of the hypercube, with
each token of the medium represented by a particular equivalence class of arcs
of the subgraph. Such a representation, although useful, is not especially
revealing of the structure of a particular medium. We propose an axiomatic
definition of the concept of a `mediatic graph'. We prove that the graph of any
medium is a mediatic graph. We also show that, for any non-necessarily finite
set S, there exists a bijection from the collection M of all the media on a
given set S (of states) onto the collection G of all the mediatic graphs on S.
  Suppose that $h$ and $g$ belong to the algebra $\B$ generated by the rational
functions and an entire function $f$ of finite order on ${\Bbb C}^n$ and that
$h/g$ has algebraic polar variety. We show that either $h/g\in\B$ or
$f=q_1e^p+q_2$, where $p$ is a polynomial and $q_1,q_2$ are rational functions.
In the latter case, $h/g$ belongs to the algebra generated by the rational
functions, $e^p$ and $e^{-p}$.
  Let F be a finite extension of Qp and G be GL(2,F). When V is the tensor
product of three admissible, irreducible, finite dimensional representations of
G, the space of G-invariant linear forms has dimension at most one. When a non
zero linear form exists, one wants to find an element of V which is not in its
kernel: this is a test vector. Gross and Prasad found explicit test vectors for
some triple of representations. In this paper, others are found, and they
almost complete the case when the conductor of each representation is at most
1.
  We relate a generic character sheaf on a disconnected reductive group with a
character of a representation of the rational points of the group over a finite
field extending a result known in the connected case.
  We propose a Hodge field theory construction that captures algebraic
properties of the reduction of Zwiebach invariants to Gromov-Witten invariants.
It generalizes the Barannikov-Kontsevich construction to the case of higher
genera correlators with gravitational descendants.
  We prove the main theorem stating that algebraically defined Hodge field
theory correlators satisfy all tautological relations. From this perspective
the statement that Barannikov-Kontsevich construction provides a solution of
the WDVV equation looks as the simplest particular case of our theorem. Also it
generalizes the particular cases of other low-genera tautological relations
proven in our earlier works; we replace the old technical proofs by a novel
conceptual proof.
  Two ideas for the choice of an adequate set of coarse variables allowing
approximate autonomous dynamics for practical applications are presented. The
coarse variables are meant to represent averaged behavior of a fine-scale
autonomous dynamics.
  We show that on Kahler manifolds with negative first Chern class, the
sequence of algebraic metrics introduced by H. Tsuji converges uniformly to the
Kahler-Einstein metric. For algebraic surfaces of general type and orbifolds
with isolated singularities, we prove a convergence result for a modified
version of Tsuji's iterative construction.
  We prove that if d is an integer number bigger than 1 and f_1,...,f_d are
commuting circle diffeomorphisms respectively of class C^(1+\tau_k), where
\tau_1 + ... + \tau_k > 1, then these maps are simultaneously conjugate to
rotations provided that their rotation numbers are independent over the
rationals.
  For an abelian category $A$ equipped with a torsion pair, we give an explicit
description for the abelian category $B$ introduced by Happel-Reiten-Smalo, and
also for the category of chain complexes $Ch(B)$ and the derived category
$D(B)$ of $B$. We also describe the DG structure on $Ch(B)$. As a consequence,
we find new proofs of certain results of Happel-Reiten-Smalo. The main
ingredient is the category of {\em decorated} complexes.
  These notes are meant to provide a rapid introduction to triangulated
categories. We start with the definition of an additive category and end with a
glimps of tilting theory. Some exercises are included.
  We introduce an explicit method for studying actions of a group stack G on an
algebraic stack X. As an example, we study in detail the case where
X=P(n_0,...,n_r) is a weighted projective stack over an arbitrary base S. To
this end, we give an explicit description of the group stack of automorphisms
of, the weighted projective general linear 2-group PGL(n_0,...,n_r). As an
application, we use a result of Colliot-Thelene to show that for every linear
algebraic group G over an arbitrary base field k (assumed to be reductive if
char(k)>0) such that Pic}(G)=0, every action of G on P(n_0,...,n_r) lifts to a
linear action of G on A^{r+1}.
  To determine the stability and instability of a given steady galaxy
configuration is one of the fundamental problems in the Vlasov theory for
galaxy dynamics. In this article, we study the stability of isotropic spherical
symmetric galaxy models $f_{0}(E)$, for which the distribution function $f_{0}$
depends on the particle energy $E$ only. In the first part of the article, we
derive the first sufficient criterion for linear instability of $f_{0}(E):$
$f_{0}(E)$ is linearly unstable if the second-order operator \[
A_{0}\equiv-\Delta+4\pi\int f_{0}^{\prime}(E)\{I-\mathcal{P}\}dv \] has a
negative direction, where $\mathcal{P}$ is the projection onto the function
space $\{g(E,L)\},$ $L$ being the angular momentum [see the explicit formula
(\ref{A0-radial})]. In the second part of the article, we prove that for the
important King model, the corresponding $A_{0}$ is positive definite. Such a
positivity leads to the nonlinear stability of the King model under all
spherically symmetric perturbations.
  A remark on a paper by Birkar-Cascini-Hacon-McKernan.
  A simple application of the semipositivity.
  We propose a new topological field theory on generalized complex geometry in
two dimension using AKSZ formulation. Zucchini's model is $A$ model in the case
that the generalized complex structuredepends on only a symplectic structure.
Our new model is $B$ model in the case that the generalized complex structure
depends on only a complex structure.
  We give explicit formulae for the continuous Hochschild and cyclic homology
and cohomology of certain topological algebras. To this end we show that, for a
continuous morphism $\phi: \X\to \Y$ of complexes of complete nuclear
$DF$-spaces, the isomorphism of cohomology groups $H^n(\phi): H^n(\X) \to
H^n(\Y)$ is automatically topological. The continuous cyclic-type homology and
cohomology are described up to topological isomorphism for the following
classes of biprojective $\hat{\otimes}$-algebras: the tensor algebra $E
\hat{\otimes} F$ generated by the duality $(E, F, < \cdot, \cdot >)$ for
nuclear Fr\'echet spaces $E$ and $F$ or for nuclear $DF$-spaces $E$ and $F$;
nuclear biprojective K\"{o}the algebras $\lambda(P)$ which are Fr\'echet spaces
or $DF$-spaces; the algebra of distributions $\mathcal{E}^*(G)$ on a compact
Lie group $G$.
  We prove curvature estimates for general curvature functions. As an
application we show the existence of closed, strictly convex hypersurfaces with
prescribed curvature $F$, where the defining cone of $F$ is $\C_+$. $F$ is only
assumed to be monotone, symmetric, homogeneous of degree 1, concave and of
class $C^{m,\al}$, $m\ge4$.
  We consider a non-nestling random walk in a product random environment. We
assume an exponential moment for the step of the walk, uniformly in the
environment. We prove an invariance principle (functional central limit
theorem) under almost every environment for the centered and diffusively scaled
walk. The main point behind the invariance principle is that the quenched mean
of the walk behaves subdiffusively.
  We find identities between theta constants with rational characteristics
evaluated at period matrix of $R,$ a cyclic 3 sheeted cover of the sphere with
$3k$ branch points $\lambda_1...\lambda_{3k}.$ These identities follow from
Thomae formula \cite{BR}. This formula expresses powers of theta constants as
polynomials in $\lambda_1...\lambda_{3k}.$ We apply the representation of the
symmetric group to find relations between the polynomials and hence between the
associated theta constants.
  We compute the homotopy type of the space of T^n-equivariant symplectic
embeddings from the standard 2n-dimensional ball of some fixed radius into a
2n-dimensional symplectic-toric manifold M, and use this computation to define
a Z-valued step function on the positive real line which is an invariant of the
symplectic-toric type of M. We conclude with a discussion of the partially
equivariant case of this result.
  We define and solve the toric version of the symplectic ball packing problem,
in the sense of listing all 2n-dimensional symplectic-toric manifolds which
admit a perfect packing by balls embedded in a symplectic and torus equivariant
fashion.
  In order to do this we first describe a problem in geometric-combinatorics
which is equivalent to the toric symplectic ball packing problem. Then we solve
this problem using arguments from Convex Geometry and Delzant theory.
  Applications to symplectic blowing-up are also presented, and some further
questions are raised in the last section.
  Let M be a symplectic-toric manifold of dimension at least four. This paper
investigates the so called symplectic ball packing problem in the toral
equivariant setting. We show that the set of toric symplectic ball packings of
M admits the structure of a convex polytope. Previous work of the first author
shows that up to equivalence, only CP^1 x CP^1 and CP^2 admit density one
packings when n=2 and only CP^n admits density one packings when n>2. In
contrast, we show that for a fixed n>=2 and each r in (0, 1), there are
uncountably many inequivalent 2n-dimensional symplectic-toric manifolds with a
maximal toric packing of density r. This result follows from a general analysis
of how the densities of maximal packings change while varying a given
symplectic-toric manifold through a family of symplectic-toric manifolds that
are equivariantly diffeomorphic but not equivariantly symplectomorphic.
  We define Floer homology for a time-independent, or autonomous Hamiltonian on
a symplectic manifold with contact type boundary, under the assumption that its
1-periodic orbits are transversally nondegenerate. Our construction is based on
Morse-Bott techniques for Floer trajectories. Our main motivation is to
understand the relationship between linearized contact homology of a fillable
contact manifold and symplectic homology of its filling.
  We study asymptotics of various Euclidean geometric phenomena as the
dimension tend to infinity.
  A drawback of Kolmogorov-Chaitin complexity (K) as a function from s to the
shortest program producing s is its noncomputability which limits its range of
applicability. Moreover, when strings are short, the dependence of K on a
particular universal Turing machine U can be arbitrary. In practice one can
approximate it by computable compression methods. However, such compression
methods do not always provide meaningful approximations--for strings shorter,
for example, than typical compiler lengths. In this paper we suggest an
empirical approach to overcome this difficulty and to obtain a stable
definition of the Kolmogorov-Chaitin complexity for short sequences.
Additionally, a correlation in terms of distribution frequencies was found
across the output of two models of abstract machines, namely unidimensional
cellular automata and deterministic Turing machine.
  We prove lower bound and finiteness properties for arakelovian heights with
respect to pre-log-log hermitian ample line bundles. These heights were
introduced by Burgos, Kramer and K\"uhn, in their extension of the arithmetic
intersection theory of Gillet and Soul\'e, aimed to deal with hermitian vector
bundles equipped with metrics admitting suitable logarithmic singularities. Our
results generalize the corresponding properties for the heights of
Bost-Gillet-Soul\'e, as well as the properties established by Faltings for
heights of points attached to hermitian line bundles whose metrics have
logarithmic singularities. We also discuss various geometric constructions
where such pre-log-log hermitian ample line bundles naturally arise.
  We establish an equivalent condition to the validity of the Collatz
conjecture, using elementary methods. We derive some conclusions and show
several examples of our results. We also offer a variety of exercises, problems
and conjectures.
  We give a new, elementary, purely analytical development of
\textsc{Descartes}' theorem that a smooth connected surface is a perfect
focusing lens if and only if it is a connected subset of the ovoid obtained by
revolving a cartesian oval around its axis of symmetry.
  We investigate degenerate saddle point problems, which can be viewed as limit
cases of standard mixed formulations of symmetric problems with large jumps in
coefficients. We prove that they are well-posed in a standard norm despite the
degeneracy. By wellposedness we mean a stable dependence of the solution on the
right-hand side. A known approach of splitting the saddle point problem into
separate equations for the primary unknown and for the Lagrange multiplier is
used. We revisit the traditional Ladygenskaya--Babu\v{s}ka--Brezzi (LBB) or
inf--sup condition as well as the standard coercivity condition, and analyze
how they are affected by the degeneracy of the corresponding bilinear forms. We
suggest and discuss generalized conditions that cover the degenerate case. The
LBB or inf--sup condition is necessary and sufficient for wellposedness of the
problem with respect to the Lagrange multiplier under some assumptions. The
generalized coercivity condition is necessary and sufficient for wellposedness
of the problem with respect to the primary unknown under some other
assumptions. We connect the generalized coercivity condition to the
positiveness of the minimum gap of relevant subspaces, and propose several
equivalent expressions for the minimum gap. Our results provide a foundation
for research on uniform wellposedness of mixed formulations of symmetric
problems with large jumps in coefficients in a standard norm, independent of
the jumps. Such problems appear, e.g., in numerical simulations of composite
materials made of components with contrasting properties.
  This paper is concerned with optimum diversity receiver structure and its
performance analysis of differential phase shift keying (DPSK) with
differential detection over nonselective, independent, nonidentically
distributed, Rayleigh fading channels. The fading process in each branch is
assumed to have an arbitrary Doppler spectrum with arbitrary Doppler bandwidth,
but to have distinct, asymmetric fading power spectral density characteristic.
Using 8-DPSK as an example, the average bit error probability (BEP) of the
optimum diversity receiver is obtained by calculating the BEP for each of the
three individual bits. The BEP results derived are given in exact, explicit,
closed-form expressions which show clearly the behavior of the performance as a
function of various system parameters.
  We consider testing independence in group-wise selections with some
restrictions on combinations of choices. We present models for frequency data
of selections for which it is easy to perform conditional tests by Markov chain
Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. When the restrictions on the combinations can be
described in terms of a Segre-Veronese configuration, an explicit form of a
Gr\"obner basis consisting of moves of degree two is readily available for
performing a Markov chain. We illustrate our setting with the National Center
Test for university entrance examinations in Japan. We also apply our method to
testing independence hypotheses involving genotypes at more than one locus or
haplotypes of alleles on the same chromosome.
  We introduce a new type of local and microlocal asymptotic analysis in
algebras of generalized functions, based on the presheaf properties of those
algebras and on the properties of their elements with respect to a regularizing
parameter. Contrary to the more classical frequential analysis based on the
Fourier transform, we can describe a singular asymptotic spectrum which has
good properties with respect to nonlinear operations. In this spirit we give
several examples of propagation of singularities through nonlinear operators.
  Main change from v1 : theorem C has been modified, see remark 3.1.7 (2).
  We study the category of B-pairs (W_e,W_dR^+) where W_e is a free
B_cris^{phi=1}-module with a semilinear and continuous action of G_K and where
W_dR^+ is a G_K-stable B_dR^+ -lattice in B_dR \otimes W_e. This category
contains the category of p-adic representations and is naturally equivalent to
the category of all (phi,Gamma)-modules over the Robba ring.
  Addition theorems are principal tools that express a function $f (\bm{r} \pm
\bm{r}')$ in terms of products of other functions that only depend on either
$\bm{r}$ or $\bm{r}'$. The best known example of such an addition theorem is
the Laplace expansion of the Coulomb potential which possesses a characteristic
two-range form. Guseinov [Chem. Phys. {\bf 309}, 209 - 213 (2005)] derived
one-range addition theorems for the Coulomb potential via the limit $\beta \to
0$ in previously derived one-range addition theorems for the Yukawa potential
$\exp \bigl(-\beta | \bm{r}-\bm{r}'| \bigr) /| \bm{r}-\bm{r}'|$. At first
sight, this looks like a remarkable achievement, but from a mathematical point
of view, Guseinov's work is at best questionable and in some cases
fundamentally flawed. One-range addition theorems are expansions in terms of
functions that are complete and orthonormal in a given Hilbert space, but
Guseinov replaced the complete and orthonormal functions by nonorthogonal
Slater-type functions and rearranged the resulting expansions. This is a
dangerous operation whose validity must be checked. It is shown that the
one-center limit $\bm{r}' = \bm{0}$ of Guseinov's rearranged Yukawa addition
theorems as well as of several other addition theorems does not exist.
Moreover, the Coulomb potential does not belong to any of the Hilbert spaces
implicitly used by Guseinov. Accordingly, one-range addition theorems for the
Coulomb potential diverge in the mean. Instead, these one-range addition
theorems have to interpreted as expansions of generalized functions in the
sense of Schwartz that converge weakly in suitable functionals.
  The interrelation between the cyclic structure of an ideal, i.e., a cyclic
code over Galois field $GF(q)$, $q>2$, and its classes of proportional elements
is considered. This relation is used in order to define the code's weight
structure. The equidistance conditions of irreducible nonprimitive codes over
GF(q) are given. Besides that, the minimum distance for some class of
nonprimitive cyclic codes is found.
  Let $V$ be a complex linear space, $G\subset\GL(V)$ be a compact group. We
consider the problem of description of polynomial hulls $\wh{Gv}$ for orbits
$Gv$, $v\in V$, assuming that the identity component of $G$ is a torus $T$. The
paper contains a universal construction for orbits which satisfy the inclusion
$Gv\subset T^\bbC v$ and a characterization of pairs $(G,V)$ such that it is
true for a generic $v\in V$. The hull of a finite union of $T$-orbits in
$T^\bbC v$ can be distinguished in $\clos T^\bbC v$ by a finite collection of
inequalities of the type $\abs{z_1}^{s_1}...\abs{z_n}^{s_n}\leq c$. In
particular, this is true for $Gv$. If powers in the monomials are independent
of $v$, $Gv\subset T^\bbC v$ for a generic $v$, and either the center of $G$ is
finite or $T^\bbC$ has an open orbit, then the space $V$ and the group $G$ are
products of standard ones; the latter means that $G=S_nT$, where $S_n$ is the
group of all permutations of coordinates and $T$ is either $\bbT^n$ or
$\SU(n)\cap\bbT^n$, where $\bbT^n$ is the torus of all diagonal matrices in
$\rU(n)$. The paper also contains a description of polynomial hulls for orbits
of isotropy groups of bounded symmetric domains. This result is already known,
but we formulate it in a different form and supply with a shorter proof.
  Although powers of the Young-Jucys-Murphya elements X_i = (1 i) + ... +(i-1
i), i = 1, ..., n, in the symmetric group S_n acting on {1, ...,n} do not lie
in the centre of the group algebra of S_n, we show that transitive powers,
namely the sum of the contributions from elements that act transitively on {1,
>...,n}, are central. We determine the coefficients, which we call star
factorization numbers, that occur in the resolution of transitive powers with
respect to the class basis of the centre of S_n, and show that they have a
polynomiality property. These centrality and polynomiality properties have
seemingly unrelated consequences. First, they answer a question raised by Pak
about reduced decompositions; second, they explain and extend the beautiful
symmetry result discovered by Irving and Rattan; and thirdly, we relate the
polynomiality to an existing polynomiality result for a class of double Hurwitz
numbers associated with branched covers of the sphere, which therefore suggests
that there may be an ELSV-type formula associated with the star factorization
numbers.
  Using a noncommutative analog of Chevalley's decomposition of polynomials
into symmetric polynomials times coinvariants due to Bergeron, Reutenauer,
Rosas, and Zabrocki we compute the graded Frobenius series for their two sets
of noncommutative harmonics with respect to the left action of the symmetric
group (acting on variables). We use these results to derive the Frobenius
series for the enveloping algebra of the derived free Lie algebra in n
variables.
  We consider operators $H_\mu$ of convolution with measures $\mu$ on locally
compact groups. We characterize the spectrum of $H_\mu$ by constructing
auxiliary operators whose kernel contain the pure point and singular subspaces
of $H_\mu$, respectively. The proofs rely on commutator methods.
  A quadrilateral of factors is an irreducible inclusion of factors $N \subset
M$ with intermediate subfactors $P$ and $Q$ such that $P$ and $Q$ generate $M$
and the intersection of $P$ and $Q$ is $N$. We investigate the structure of a
non-commuting quadrilateral of factors with all the elementary inclusions
$P\subset M$, $Q\subset M$, $N\subset P$, and $N\subset Q$ 2-supertransitive.
In particular we classify such quadrilaterals with the indices of the
elementary subfactors less than or equal to 4. We also compute the angles
between $P$ and $Q$ for quadrilaterals coming from $\alpha$-induction and
asymptotic inclusions.
  To any complex Hadamard matrix H one associates a spin model commuting
square, and therefore a hyperfinite subfactor. The standard invariant of this
subfactor captures certain "group-like" symmetries of H. To gain some insight,
we compute the first few relative commutants of such subfactors for Hadamard
matrices of small dimensions. Also, we show that subfactors arising from Dita
type matrices have intermediate subfactors, and thus their standard invariants
have some extra structure besides the Jones projections.
  This paper explores the following question: what kind of statistical
guarantees can be given when doing variable selection in high-dimensional
models? In particular, we look at the error rates and power of some multi-stage
regression methods. In the first stage we fit a set of candidate models. In the
second stage we select one model by cross-validation. In the third stage we use
hypothesis testing to eliminate some variables. We refer to the first two
stages as "screening" and the last stage as "cleaning." We consider three
screening methods: the lasso, marginal regression, and forward stepwise
regression. Our method gives consistent variable selection under certain
conditions.
  We use $p$-component fermions $(p=2,3,...)$ to present $(2p-2)N$-fold
integrals as a fermionic expectation value. This yields fermionic
representation for various $(2p-2)$-matrix models. Links with the $p$-component
KP hierarchy and also with the $p$-component TL hierarchy are discussed. We
show that the set of all (but two) flows of $p$-component TL changes standard
matrix models to new ones.
  We use the fermionic construction of two-matrix model partition functions to
evaluate integrals over rational symmetric functions. This approach is
complementary to the one used in the paper ``Integrals of Rational Symmetric
Functions, Two-Matrix Models and Biorthogonal Polynomials'' \cite{paper2},
where these integrals were evaluated by a direct method.
  Tau functions expressed as fermionic expectation values are shown to provide
a natural and straightforward description of a number of random processes and
statistical models involving hard core configurations of identical particles on
the integer lattice, like a discrete version simple exclusion processes (ASEP),
nonintersecting random walkers, lattice Coulomb gas models and others, as well
as providing a powerful tool for combinatorial calculations involving paths
between pairs of partitions. We study the decay of the initial step function
within the discrete ASEP (d-ASEP) model as an example.
  We study KPP pulsating front speed-up and effective diffusivity enhancement
by general periodic incompressible flows. We prove the existence of and
determine the limits $c^*(A)/A$ and $D(A)/A^2$ as $A\to\infty$, where $c^*(A)$
is the minimal front speed and $D(A)$ the effective diffusivity.
  We consider reaction-diffusion equations with combustion-type non-linearities
in two dimensions and study speed-up of their pulsating fronts by general
periodic incompressible flows with a cellular structure. We show that the
occurence of front speed-up in the sense $\lim_{A\to\infty} c_*(A)=\infty$,
with $A$ the amplitude of the flow and $c_*(A)$ the (minimal) front speed, only
depends on the geometry of the flow and not on the reaction function. In
particular, front speed-up happens for KPP reactions if and only if it does for
ignition reactions. We also show that the flows which achieve this speed-up are
precisely those which, when scaled properly, are able to quench any ignition
reaction.
  Any homogeneous polynomial $P(x, y, z)$ of degree $d$, being restricted to a
unit sphere $S^2$, admits essentially a unique representation of the form
$\lambda + \sum_{k = 1}^d [\prod_{j = 1}^k L_{kj}]$, where $L_{kj}$'s are
linear forms in $x, y$ and $z$ and $\lambda$ is a real number. The coefficients
of these linear forms, viewed as 3D vectors, are called \emph{multipole}
vectors of $P$. In this paper we consider similar multipole representations of
polynomial and analytic functions on other quadratic surfaces $Q(x, y, z) = c$,
real and complex. Over the complex numbers, the above representation is not
unique, although the ambiguity is essentially finite. We investigate the
combinatorics that depicts this ambiguity. We link these results with some
classical theorems of harmonic analysis, theorems that describe decompositions
of functions into sums of spherical harmonics. We extend these classical
theorems (which rely on our understanding of the Laplace operator
$\Delta_{S^2}$) to more general differential operators $\Delta_Q$ that are
constructed with the help of the quadratic form $Q(x, y, z)$. Then we introduce
modular spaces of multipoles. We study their intricate geometry and topology
using methods of algebraic geometry and singularity theory. The multipole
spaces are ramified over vector or projective spaces, and the compliments to
the ramification sets give rise to a rich family of $K(\pi, 1)$-spaces, where
$\pi$ runs over a variety of modified braid groups.
  We define an integral Borel-Moore homology theory over finite fields, called
arithmetic homology, and an integral version of Kato homology. Both types of
groups are expected to be finitely generated, and sit in a long exact sequence
with higher Chow groups of zero-cycles.
  Harvey and Lawson introduced the Kaehler rank and computed it in connection
to the cone of positive exact currents of bidimension (1,1) for many classes of
compact complex surfaces. In this paper we extend these computations to the
only further known class of surfaces not considered by them, that of Kato
surfaces. Our main tool is the reduction to the dynamics of associated
holomorphic contractions.
  We prove dispersive estimates for the low frequency part of the Schrodinger
group for a large class of potentials in dimensions greater or equal to four.
As a consequence, we extend the result of Journe, Sofer and Sogge to a larger
class of potentials. In this revised version a mistake in the proof of the
estimate (B.4) is removed.
  The large time behavior of solutions to Cauchy problem for viscous
Hamilton-Jacobi equation is classified. The large time asymptotics are given by
very singular self-similar solutions on one hand and by self-similar viscosity
solutions on the other hand
  The large time behavior of zero mass solutions to the Cauchy problem for a
convection-diffusion equation. We provide conditions on the size and shape of
the initial datum such that the large time asymptotics of solutions is given
either by the derivative of the Guass-Weierstrass kernel or by a self-similar
solution or by a hyperbolic N-wave
  These lecture notes describe the current state of affairs for Manin's
conjecture in the context of del Pezzo surfaces.
  We consider a tippe top modeled as an eccentric sphere, spinning on a
horizontal table and subject to a sliding friction. Ignoring translational
effects, we show that the system is reducible using a Routhian reduction
technique. The reduced system is a two dimensional system of second order
differential equations, that allows an elegant and compact way to retrieve the
classification of tippe tops in six groups as proposed in [1] according to the
existence and stability type of the steady states.
  In this paper we study one dimensional backward stochastic differential
equations (BSDEs) with random terminal time not necessarily bounded or finite
when the generator F(t,Y,Z) has a quadratic growth in Z. We provide existence
and uniqueness of a bounded solution of such BSDEs and, in the case of infinite
horizon, regular dependence on parameters. The obtained results are then
applied to prove existence and uniqueness of a mild solution to elliptic
partial differential equations in Hilbert spaces.
  In this work we study some general classes of pseudodifferential operators
whose symbols are defined in terms of phase space estimates.
  Interpreting entwining structures as special instances of J. Beck's
distributive law, the concept of entwining module can be generalized for the
setting of arbitrary monoidal category. In this paper, we use the distributive
law formalism to extend in this setting basic properties of entwining modules.
  Given a projective variety X over an algebraically closed field of
characteristic zero, we show that finite parabolic bundles along a fixed simple
normal crossings divisor D are in one to one correspondence with
representations of the \'etale fundamental group of X-D.
  Starting from certain perverse sheaves on an abelian variety, including the
intersection cohomology sheaves of curves and smooth ample divisors, we
construct a semisimple super-Tannakian category.
  We define an invariant of welded virtual knots from each finite crossed
module by considering crossed module invariants of ribbon knotted surfaces
which are naturally associated with them. We elucidate that the invariants
obtained are non trivial by calculating explicit examples. We define welded
virtual graphs and consider invariants of them defined in a similar way.
  In this article we study Cohen-Macaulay modules over one-dimensional
hypersurface singularities and the relationship with the representation theory
of associative algebras using methods of cluster tilting theory. We give a
criterion for existence of cluster tilting objects and their complete
description by homological methods, using higher almost split sequences and
results from birational geometry. We obtain a large class of 2-CY tilted
algebras which are finite dimensional symmetric and satisfy $\tau^2=\id$. In
particular, we compute 2-CY tilted algebras for simple and minimally elliptic
curve singularities.
  We prove a double-exponential upper bound on the degree and on the complexity
of constructing a Janet basis of a $D$-module. This generalizes a well known
bound on the complexity of a Gr\"obner basis of a module over the algebra of
polynomials. We would like to emphasize that the obtained bound can not be
immediately deduced from the commutative case.
  We prove the existence of the intersection local time for two independent, d
-dimensional fractional Brownian motions with the same Hurst parameter H.
Assume d greater or equal to 2, then the intersection local time exists if and
only if Hd<2.
  Sharkovskii proved that the existence of a periodic orbit in a
one-dimensional dynamical system implies existence of infinitely many periodic
orbits. We obtain an analog of Sharkovskii's theorem for periodic orbits of
shear homeomorphisms of the torus. This is done by obtaining a dynamical order
relation on the set of simple orbits and simple pairs. We then use this order
relation for a global analysis for a quantum chaotic physical system called the
kicked accelerated particle.
  If the $\ell$-adic cohomology of a projective smooth variety, defined over a
$\frak{p}$-adic field $K$ with finite residue field $k$, is supported in
codimension $\ge 1$, then any model over the ring of integers of $K$ has a
$k$-rational point. This slightly improves our earlier result math/0405318: we
needed there the model to be regular (but then our result was more general: we
obtained a congruence for the number of points, and $K$ could be local of
characteristic $p>0$).
  We give a simple geometric proof that $e$ is irrational, using a construction
of a nested sequence of closed intervals with intersection $e$. The proof leads
to a new measure of irrationality for $e$: if $p$ and $q$ are integers with $q
> 1$, then $|e - p/q| > 1/(S(q)+1)!$, where $S(q)$ is the smallest positive
integer such that $S(q)!$ is a multiple of $q$. We relate this measure for $e$
to a known one and to the greatest prime factor of an integer. We make two
conjectures and recall a theorem of Cantor that can be proved by a similar
construction.
  Food scientists at the U.S. Army's Natick Solider Center have developed a
model for the lifecyle of the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus in intermediate
moisture bread. In this article, we study this model using dynamical systems
and Lie symmetry methods. We calculate center manifolds and Lie symmetries for
different cases of parameter values and compare our results to those of the
food scientists.
  We consider a problem of nuclear waste contamination. It takes into account
the thermal effects. The temperature and the contaminant's concentration
fulfill convection-diffusion-reaction equations. The velocity and the pressure
in the flow satisfy the Darcy equation, with a viscosity depending on both
concentration and temperature. The equations are nonlinear and strongly
coupled. Using both finite volume and nonconforming finite element methods, we
introduce a scheme adapted to this problem. We prove the stability and
convergence of this scheme and give some error estimates.
  A non-Hermitian complex symmetric 2x2 matrix toy model is used to study
projective Hilbert space structures in the vicinity of exceptional points
(EPs). The bi-orthogonal eigenvectors of a diagonalizable matrix are
Puiseux-expanded in terms of the root vectors at the EP. It is shown that the
apparent contradiction between the two incompatible normalization conditions
with finite and singular behavior in the EP-limit can be resolved by
projectively extending the original Hilbert space. The complementary
normalization conditions correspond then to two different affine charts of this
enlarged projective Hilbert space. Geometric phase and phase jump behavior are
analyzed and the usefulness of the phase rigidity as measure for the distance
to EP configurations is demonstrated. Finally, EP-related aspects of
PT-symmetrically extended Quantum Mechanics are discussed and a conjecture
concerning the quantum brachistochrone problem is formulated.
  We give two characterizations of crooked functions: one based on the minimum
distance of a Preparata-like code, and the other based on the
distance-regularity of a crooked graph.
  A multiple antenna downlink channel where limited channel feedback is
available to the transmitter is considered. In a vector downlink channel
(single antenna at each receiver), the transmit antenna array can be used to
transmit separate data streams to multiple receivers only if the transmitter
has very accurate channel knowledge, i.e., if there is high-rate channel
feedback from each receiver. In this work it is shown that channel feedback
requirements can be significantly reduced if each receiver has a small number
of antennas and appropriately combines its antenna outputs. A combining method
that minimizes channel quantization error at each receiver, and thereby
minimizes multi-user interference, is proposed and analyzed. This technique is
shown to outperform traditional techniques such as maximum-ratio combining
because minimization of interference power is more critical than maximization
of signal power in the multiple antenna downlink. Analysis is provided to
quantify the feedback savings, and the technique is seen to work well with user
selection and is also robust to receiver estimation error.
  The celebrated Thistlethwaite theorem relates the Jones polynomial of a link
with the Tutte polynomial of the corresponding planar graph. We give a
generalization of this theorem to virtual links. In this case, the graph will
be embedded into a (higher genus) surface. For such graphs we use the
generalization of the Tutte polynomial discovered by B.Bollobas and O.Riordan.
  We consider a system of d non-linear stochastic heat equations in spatial
dimension 1 driven by d-dimensional space-time white noise. The non-linearities
appear both as additive drift terms and as multipliers of the noise. Using
techniques of Malliavin calculus, we establish upper and lower bounds on the
one-point density of the solution u(t,x), and upper bounds of Gaussian-type on
the two-point density of (u(s,y),u(t,x)). In particular, this estimate
quantifies how this density degenerates as (s,y) converges to (t,x). From these
results, we deduce upper and lower bounds on hitting probabilities of the
process {u(t,x)}_{t \in \mathbb{R}_+, x \in [0,1]}, in terms of respectively
Hausdorff measure and Newtonian capacity. These estimates make it possible to
show that points are polar when d >6 and are not polar when d<6. We also show
that the Hausdorff dimension of the range of the process is 6 when d>6, and
give analogous results for the processes t \mapsto u(t,x) and x \mapsto u(t,x).
Finally, we obtain the values of the Hausdorff dimensions of the level sets of
these processes.
  We prove that if a finite order knot invariant does not distinguish mutant
knots, then the corresponding weight system depends on the intersection graph
of a chord diagram rather than on the diagram itself. The converse statement is
easy and well known. We discuss relationship between our results and certain
Lie algebra weight systems.
  Low density lattice codes (LDLC) are novel lattice codes that can be decoded
efficiently and approach the capacity of the additive white Gaussian noise
(AWGN) channel. In LDLC a codeword x is generated directly at the n-dimensional
Euclidean space as a linear transformation of a corresponding integer message
vector b, i.e., x = Gb, where H, the inverse of G, is restricted to be sparse.
The fact that H is sparse is utilized to develop a linear-time iterative
decoding scheme which attains, as demonstrated by simulations, good error
performance within ~0.5dB from capacity at block length of n = 100,000 symbols.
The paper also discusses convergence results and implementation considerations.
  Let P(k) be the largest prime factor of the positive integer k. In this
paper, we prove that the series $\sum_{n\ge 1}\frac{(\log n)^a}{P(2^n-1)}$ is
convergent for each constant a<1/2, which gives a more precise form of a result
of C. L. Stewart from 1977.
  In this paper we outline a program for the classification of Floer-type
theories, (or defining invariants of finite type for families). We consider
Khovanov complexes as a local system on the space of knots introduced by V.
Vassiliev and construct the wall-crossing morphism. We extend this system to
the singular locus by the cone of this morphism and introduce the definition of
the local system of finite type. This program can be further generalized to the
manifolds of dimension 3 and 4.
  We prove an analog of Siegel's theorem for integral points in the context of
Drinfeld modules. The result holds for finitely generated submodules of the
additive group over a function field of transcendence dimension 1.
  The goal of this paper is to provide estimates leading to a direct proof of
the exponential decay of the n-point correlation functions for certain
unbounded models of Kac type. The methods are based on estimating higher order
derivatives of the solution of the Witten Laplacian equation on one forms
associated with the hamiltonian of the system. We also provide a formula for
the Taylor coefficients of the pressure that is suitable for a direct proof the
analyticity.
  We prove a dynamical version of the Mordell-Lang conjecture in the context of
Drinfeld modules. We use analytic methods similar to the ones employed by
Skolem, Chabauty, and Coleman for studying diophantine equations.
  The $L^2$-cohomology of a locally symmetric variety is known to have the
topological interpretation as the intersection homology of its Baily-Borel
Satake compactification. In this article, we observe that even without the
Hermitian hypothesis, the $L^p$-cohomology of an arithmetic quotient, for $p$
finite and sufficiently large, is isomorphic to the ordinary cohomology of its
reductive Borel-Serre compactification. We use this to generalize a theorem of
Mumford concerning homogeneous vector bundles, their invariant Chern forms and
the canonical extensions of the bundles; here, though, we are referring to
canonical extensions to the reductive Borel-Serre compactification of any
arithmetic quotient. To achieve that, we give a systematic discussion of vector
bundles and Chern classes on stratified
  We define tautological Chow classes on the moduli space of curves with linear
series. In the case where the forgetful morphism to the moduli space of curves
has relative dimension zero, we describe the images of these classes in the
Chow group of Mgbar. As an application, we compute the (virtual) slopes of
several different classes of divisors on Mgbar.
  We extend the main result in the previous paper of Zhang and the author
relating the Milnor-Turaev torsion with the complex valued analytic torsion to
the equivariant case.
  In this paper we study Hardy and Rellich type inequalities for
Baouendi-Grushin vector fields : $\nabla_{\gamma}=(\nabla_x,
|x|^{2\gamma}\nabla_y)$ where $\gamma>0$, $\nabla_x$ and $\nabla_y$ are usual
gradient operators in the variables $x\in \mathbb{R}^m$ and $y\in\mathbb{R}^k$,
respectively. In the first part of the paper, we prove some weighted Hardy type
inequalities with remainder terms. In the second part, we prove two versions of
weighted Rellich type inequality on the whole space. We find sharp constants
for these inequalities. We also obtain their improved versions for bounded
domains.
  Let $X$ be an integral model at a prime $p$ of a Shimura variety of PEL type
having good reduction, associated to a reductive group $G$. To $\mathbb{Z}_p$
reprsententations of the group $G$ can be associated two kinds of sheaves :
crystals on the special fiber of $X$, and locally constant \'etale sheaves on
the generic fiber. We establish a comparison between the cohomology of these
two kinds of sheaves.
  Using particle system methodologies we study the propagation of financial
distress in a network of firms facing credit risk. We investigate the
phenomenon of a credit crisis and quantify the losses that a bank may suffer in
a large credit portfolio. Applying a large deviation principle we compute the
limiting distributions of the system and determine the time evolution of the
credit quality indicators of the firms, deriving moreover the dynamics of a
global financial health indicator. We finally describe a suitable version of
the "Central Limit Theorem" useful to study large portfolio losses. Simulation
results are provided as well as applications to portfolio loss distribution
analysis.
  This work is devoted to the strong unique continuation problem for second
order parabolic equations with nonsmooth coefficients. Introduction and
bibliography have been revised.
  We establish existence and pointwise estimates of fundamental solutions and
Green's matrices for divergence form, second order strongly elliptic systems in
a domain $\Omega \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n$, $n \geq 3$, under the assumption that
solutions of the system satisfy De Giorgi-Nash type local H\"{o}lder continuity
estimates. In particular, our results apply to perturbations of diagonal
systems, and thus especially to complex perturbations of a single real
equation.
  Distance-preserving mappings (DPMs) are mappings from the set of all q-ary
vectors of a fixed length to the set of permutations of the same or longer
length such that every two distinct vectors are mapped to permutations with the
same or even larger Hamming distance than that of the vectors. In this paper,
we propose a construction of DPMs from ternary vectors. The constructed DPMs
improve the lower bounds on the maximal size of permutation arrays.
  We study an efficient dynamic blind source separation algorithm of
convolutive sound mixtures based on updating statistical information in the
frequency domain, andminimizing the support of time domain demixing filters by
a weighted least square method. The permutation and scaling indeterminacies of
separation, and concatenations of signals in adjacent time frames are resolved
with optimization of $l^1 \times l^\infty$ norm on cross-correlation
coefficients at multiple time lags. The algorithm is a direct method without
iterations, and is adaptive to the environment. Computations on recorded and
synthetic mixtures of speech and music signals show excellent performance.
  We compute the eigenvalues with multiplicities of the Lichnerowicz Laplacian
acting on the space of symmetric covariant tensor fields on the Euclidian
sphere $S^n$. The spaces of symmetric eigentensors are explicitly given.
  Under natural hypotheses we give an upper bound on the dimension of families
of singular curves with hyperelliptic normalizations on a surface S with p_g(S)
>0 via the study of the associated families of rational curves in Hilb^2(S).
  We use this result to prove the existence of nodal curves of geometric genus
3 with hyperelliptic normalizations, on a general K3 surface, thus obtaining
specific 2-dimensional families of rational curves in its Hilbert square. We
describe two infinite series of examples of general, primitively polarized K3's
such that their Hilbert squares contain a IP^2 or a threefold birational to a
IP^1-bundle over a K3.
  We discuss some consequences on the Mori cone of the Hilbert square of a
general K3.
  Auscher, McIntosh and Tchamitchian studied the heat kernels of second order
elliptic operators in divergence form with complex bounded measurable
coefficients on $\mathbb{R}^n$. In particular, in the case when $n=2$ they
obtained Gaussian upper bound estimates for the heat kernel without imposing
further assumption on the coefficients. We study the fundamental solutions of
the systems of second order parabolic equations in the divergence form with
bounded, measurable, time-independent coefficients, and extend their results to
the systems of parabolic equations.
  We exhibit examples of triangulated categories which are neither the stable
category of a Frobenius category nor a full triangulated subcategory of the
homotopy category of a stable model category. Even more drastically, our
examples do not admit any non-trivial exact functors to or from these algebraic
respectively topological triangulated categories.
  In 1948, W. Hoeffding introduced a large class of unbiased estimators called
U-statistics, defined as the average value of a real-valued k-variate function
h calculated at all possible sets of k points from a random sample. In the
present paper we investigate the corresponding extreme value analogue, which we
shall call U-max-statistics. We are concerned with the behavior of the largest
value of such function h instead of its average. Examples of U-max-statistics
are the diameter or the largest scalar product within a random sample.
U-max-statistics of higher degrees are given by triameters and other metric
invariants.
  This paper deals with a family of spatial rational curves that were
introduced by Andradas, Recio and Sendra, under the name of hypercircles, as an
algorithmic cornerstone tool in the context of improving the rational
parametrization (simplifying the coefficients of the rational functions, when
possible) of algebraic varieties. A real circle can be defined as the image of
the real axis under a Moebius transformation in the complex field. Likewise,
and roughly speaking, a hypercircle can be defined as the image of a line ("the
${\mathbb{K}}$-axis") in a $n$-degree finite algebraic extension
$\mathbb{K}(\alpha)\thickapprox\mathbb{K}^n$ under the transformation
$\frac{at+b}{ct+d}:\mathbb{K}(\alpha)\to\mathbb{K}(\alpha)$.
  The aim of this article is to extend, to the case of hypercircles, some of
the specific properties of circles. We show that hypercircles are precisely,
via $\mathbb{K}$-projective transformations, the rational normal curve of a
suitable degree. We also obtain a complete description of the points at
infinity of these curves (generalizing the cyclic structure at infinity of
circles). We characterize hypercircles as those curves of degree equal to the
dimension of the ambient affine space and with infinitely many
${\mathbb{K}}$-rational points, passing through these points at infinity.
Moreover, we give explicit formulae for the parametrization and implicitation
of hypercircles. Besides the intrinsic interest of this very special family of
curves, the understanding of its properties has a direct application to the
simplification of parametrizations problem, as shown in the last section.
  We study the rate of growth of ratios of intervals delimited by the
post-critical orbit of a map in the quasi-quadratic family $x\mapsto
-|x|^\alpha +a.$ The critical order $\alpha$ is an arbitrary real number
$\alpha>1.$ The range of the parameter $a$ is confined to an interval
$(1,a_{\alpha})$ of length depending on the critical order. We prove that in
every power-law family there is a unique parameter $p_{\alpha}$ corresponding
to the kneading sequence $RLRRRLRC.$ Subsequently, we obtain monotonicity
results concerning ratios of all intervals labeled by infinite post-critical
orbit in the case of the kneading sequence $RLRL...$ This extends the results
from \cite{P}, via refinement of the tools based on special properties of
power-law mappings in non-euclidean metric.
  The purpose of this paper is to construct the p-adic twisted
(h,q)-Euler-l-function, which interpolates the twisted generalized twisted
Euler numbers attached to chi at a negative integer.
  In this research project we presents the general properties, the spectral
properties and the representation formulas for $C_0$-semigroups of linear
operators in Banach spaces
  Bi-Hamiltonian structures involving Hamiltonian operators of degree 2 are
studied. Firstly, pairs of degree 2 operators are considered in terms of an
algebra structure on the space of 1-forms, related to so-called Fermionic
Novikov algebras. Then, degree 2 operators are considered as deformations of
hydrodynamic type Poisson brackets.
  This note elaborates on Th. Voronov's construction
[math/0304038,math/0412202] of $L_\infty$-structures via higher derived
brackets with a Maurer-Cartan element. It is shown that gauge equivalent
Maurer-Cartan elements induce $L_\infty$-isomorphic structures. Applications in
symplectic, Poisson and Dirac geometry are discussed.
  Most design approaches for trellis-coded quantization take advantage of the
duality of trellis-coded quantization with trellis-coded modulation, and use
the same empirically-found convolutional codes to label the trellis branches.
This letter presents an alternative approach that instead takes advantage of
maximum-Hamming-distance convolutional codes. The proposed source codes are
shown to be competitive with the best in the literature for the same
computational complexity.
  We prove the existence and uniqueness of the solution of a semilinear PDE's
and also PDE's with obstacle under monotonicity condition. Moreover we give the
probabilistic interpretation of the Sobolev's solutions in term of Backward SDE
and reflected Backward SDE respectively.
  Several representations of the exact cdf of the sum of squares of n
independent gamma-distributed random variables Xi are given, in particular by a
series of gamma distribution functions. Using a characterization of the gamma
distribution by Laha, an expansion of the exact distribution of the sample
variance is derived by a Taylor series approach with the former distribution as
its leading term. In particular for integer orders alpha some further series
are provided, including a convex combination of gamma distributions for alpha =
1 and nearly of this type for alpha > 1. Furthermore, some representations of
the distribution of the angle Phi between (X1,...,Xn) and (1,...,1) are given
by orthogonal series. All these series are based on the same sequence of easily
computed moments of cos(Phi).
  Let $X:U-->R^2$ be a differentiable vector field. Set $Spc(X)={eigenvalues of
DX(z) : z\in U}$. This $X$ is called Hurwitz if $Spc(X)\subset{z\in
C:\Re(z)<0}$. Suppose that $X$ is Hurwitz and $U\subset R^2$ is the complement
of a compact set. Then by adding to $X$ a constant $v$ one obtains that the
infinity is either an attractor or a repellor for $X+v.$
  In this paper, we find computational formulae for generalized characteristic
polynomials of graph bundles. We show that the number of spanning trees in a
graph is the partial derivative (at (0,1)) of the generalized characteristic
polynomial of the graph. Since the reciprocal of the Bartholdi zeta function of
a graph can be derived from the generalized characteristic polynomial of a
graph, consequently, the Bartholdi zeta function of a graph bundle can be
computed by using our computational formulae.
  We show that nontrivial classical pretzel knots L(p,q,r) are hyperbolic with
eight exceptions which are torus knots. We find Conway polynomials of n-pretzel
links using a new computation tree. As applications, we compute the genera of
n-pretzel links using these polynomials and find the basket number of pretzel
links by showing that the genus and the canonical genus of a pretzel link are
the same.
  Taking advantage of the recent litterature on exact simulation algorithms
(Beskos, Papaspiliopoulos and Roberts) and unbiased estimation of the
expectation of certain fonctional integrals (Wagner, Beskos et al. and
Fearnhead et al.), we apply an exact simulation based technique for pricing
continuous arithmetic average Asian options in the Black and Scholes framework.
Unlike existing Monte Carlo methods, we are no longer prone to the
discretization bias resulting from the approximation of continuous time
processes through discrete sampling. Numerical results of simulation studies
are presented and variance reduction problems are considered.
  It was recently shown by Hansen that the Wigner-Yanase entropy is, for
general states of quantum systems, not subadditive with respect to
decomposition into two subsystems, although this property is known to hold for
pure states. We investigate the question whether the weaker property of
subadditivity for pure states with respect to decomposition into more than two
subsystems holds. This property would have interesting applications in quantum
chemistry. We show, however, that it does not hold in general, and provide a
counterexample.
  We study the fundamental properties of curvature in groupoids within the
framework of synthetic differential geometry. As is usual in synthetic
differential geometry, its combinatorial nature is emphasized. In particular,
the classical Bianchi identity is deduced from its combinatorial one.
  A classification is given of certain separable nuclear C*-algebras not
necessarily of real rank zero, namely, the class of separable simple
C*-algebras which are inductive limits of continuous-trace C*-algebras whose
building blocks have spectrum homeomorphic to the closed interval [0,1], or to
a disjoint union of copies of this space. Also, the range of the invariant is
calculated.
  We consider the problem of estimating the probability of an observed string
drawn i.i.d. from an unknown distribution. The key feature of our study is that
the length of the observed string is assumed to be of the same order as the
size of the underlying alphabet. In this setting, many letters are unseen and
the empirical distribution tends to overestimate the probability of the
observed letters. To overcome this problem, the traditional approach to
probability estimation is to use the classical Good-Turing estimator. We
introduce a natural scaling model and use it to show that the Good-Turing
sequence probability estimator is not consistent. We then introduce a novel
sequence probability estimator that is indeed consistent under the natural
scaling model.
  This article is a continuation of a paper of the first author \cite{F} about
complex structures on real Banach spaces. We define a notion of even infinite
dimensional real Banach space, and prove that there exist even spaces,
including HI or unconditional examples from \cite{F} and $C(K)$ examples due to
Plebanek \cite{P}. We extend results of \cite{F} relating the set of complex
structures up to isomorphism on a real space to a group associated to
inessential operators on that space, and give characterizations of even spaces
in terms of this group. We also generalize results of \cite{F} about totally
incomparable complex structures to essentially incomparable complex structures,
while showing that the complex version of a space defined by S. Argyros and A.
Manoussakis \cite{AM} provide examples of essentially incomparable complex
structures which are not totally incomparable.
  In this paper we prove scalar and sample path large deviation principles for
a large class of Poisson cluster processes. As a consequence, we provide a
large deviation principle for ergodic Hawkes point processes.
  We point out some pitfalls related to the concept of an oracle property as
used in Fan and Li (2001, 2002, 2004) which are reminiscent of the well-known
pitfalls related to Hodges' estimator. The oracle property is often a
consequence of sparsity of an estimator. We show that any estimator satisfying
a sparsity property has maximal risk that converges to the supremum of the loss
function; in particular, the maximal risk diverges to infinity whenever the
loss function is unbounded. For ease of presentation the result is set in the
framework of a linear regression model, but generalizes far beyond that
setting. In a Monte Carlo study we also assess the extent of the problem in
finite samples for the smoothly clipped absolute deviation (SCAD) estimator
introduced in Fan and Li (2001). We find that this estimator can perform rather
poorly in finite samples and that its worst-case performance relative to
maximum likelihood deteriorates with increasing sample size when the estimator
is tuned to sparsity.
  An infinite family of ND spaces endowed with sl(2)-coalgebra symmetry is
introduced. For all these spaces the geodesic flow is superintegrable, and the
explicit form of their common set of integrals is obtained from the underlying
sl(2)-coalgebra structure. In particular, ND spherically symmetric spaces with
Euclidean signature are shown to be sl(2)-coalgebra spaces. As a byproduct of
this construction we present ND generalizations of the classical Darboux
surfaces, thus obtaining remarkable superintegrable ND spaces with non-constant
curvature.
  We consider an initial Eve-population and a population of neutral mutants,
such that the total population dies out in finite time. We describe the
evolution of the Eve-population and the total population with continuous state
branching processes, and the neutral mutation procedure can be seen as an
immigration process with intensity proportional to the size of the population.
First we establish a Williams' decomposition of the genealogy of the total
population given by a continuous random tree, according to the ancestral
lineage of the last individual alive. This allows us give a closed formula for
the probability of simultaneous extinction of the Eve-population and the total
population.
  The classical characterization of \wp, as a typical concept for far field
phenomena, has been successfully applied to many \w phenomena in past decades.
The recent reports of superluminal tunnelling times and negative group
velocities challenged this concept. A new local approach for the definition of
\wvs avoiding these difficulties while including the classical definitions as
particular cases is proposed here. This generalisation of the conventional
non-local approach can be applied to arbitrary \w forms and propagation media.
Some applications of the formalism are presented and basic properties of the
concept are summarized.
  The Fourier transforms of Laguerre functions play the same canonical role in
wavelet analysis as do the Hermite functions in Gabor analysis. We will use
them as analyzing wavelets in a similar way the Hermite functions were recently
by K. Groechenig and Y. Lyubarskii in "Gabor frames with Hermite functions, C.
R. Acad. Sci. Paris, Ser. I 344 157-162 (2007)". Building on the work of K.
Seip, "Beurling type density theorems in the unit disc, Invent. Math., 113,
21-39 (1993)", concerning sampling sequences on weighted Bergman spaces, we
find a sufficient density condition for constructing frames by translations and
dilations of the Fourier transform of the nth Laguerre function. As in
Groechenig-Lyubarskii theorem, the density increases with n, and in the special
case of the hyperbolic lattice in the upper half plane it is given by b\log
a<\frac{4\pi}{2n+\alpha}, where alpha is the parameter of the Laguerre
function.
  We consider the equation rotB+aB=0 (1) in the plane with a being a
real-valued function and show that it can be reduced to a Vekua equation of a
special form. In the case when a depends on one Cartesian variable a complete
system of exact solutions of the Vekua equation and hence of equation (1) is
constructed based on L. Bers' theory of formal powers.
  We consider pattern containment and avoidance with a very tight definition
that was used first by Riordan more than 60 years ago. Using this definition,
we prove the monotone pattern is easier to avoid than almost any other pattern
of the same length.
  We also show that with this definition, almost all patterns of length $k$ are
avoided by the same number of permutations of length $n$. The corresponding
statements are not known to be true for more relaxed definitions of pattern
containment. This is the first time we know of that expectations are used to
compare numbers of permutations avoiding certain patterns.
  We consider the static Maxwell system with an axially symmetric dielectric
permittivity and construct complete systems of its solutions which can be used
for analytic and numerical solution of corresponding boundary value problems.
  The existence of a connected 12-regular $\{K_4,K_{2,2,2}\}$-ultrahomogeneous
graph $G$ is established, (i.e. each isomorphism between two copies of $K_4$ or
$K_{2,2,2}$ in $G$ extends to an automorphism of $G$), with the 42 ordered
lines of the Fano plane taken as vertices. This graph $G$ can be expressed in a
unique way both as the edge-disjoint union of 42 induced copies of $K_4$ and as
the edge-disjoint union of 21 induced copies of $K_{2,2,2}$, with no more
copies of $K_4$ or $K_{2,2,2}$ existing in $G$. Moreover, each edge of $G$ is
shared by exactly one copy of $K_4$ and one of $K_{2,2,2}$. While the line
graphs of $d$-cubes, ($3\le d\in\ZZ$), are $\{K_d, K_{2,2}\}$-ultrahomogeneous,
$G$ is not even line-graphical. In addition, the chordless 6-cycles of $G$ are
seen to play an interesting role and some self-dual configurations associated
to $G$ with 2-arc-transitive, arc-transitive and semisymmetric Levi graphs are
considered.
  We consider pairs of toral automorphisms (A,B) satisfying an invariant cone
property. At each iteration, A acts with probability p and B with probability
1-p. We prove exponential decay of correlations for a class of Holder
continuous observables.
  This thesis provides a partial answer to a question posed by Greg Kuperberg
in q-alg/9712003 and again by Justin Roberts as problem 12.18 in "Problems on
invariants of knots and 3-manifolds", math.GT/0406190, essentially: "Can one
describe the category of representations of the quantum group U_q(sl_n)
(thought of as a spherical category) via generators and relations?"
  For each n \geq 0, I define a certain tensor category of trivalent graphs,
modulo isotopy, and construct a functor from this category onto (a full
subcategory of) the category of representations of the quantum group U_q(sl_n).
One would like to describe completely the kernel of this functor, by providing
generators. The resulting quotient of the diagrammatic category would then be a
category equivalent to the representation category of U_q(sl_n).
  I make significant progress towards this, describing certain generators of
the kernel, and some obstructions to further elements. It remains a conjecture
that these relations generate the kernel. My results extend those of
q-alg/9712003, MR1659228, math.QA/0310143 and math.GT/0506403.
  The argument is essentially by constructing a diagrammatic version of the
forgetful functor coming from the inclusion of U_q(sl_{n-1}) in U_q(sl_n}. We
know this functor is faithful, so a diagram is in the kernel for n exactly if
its image under the diagrammatic forgetful functor is in the kernel for n-1.
This allows us to perform inductive calculations, both establishing families of
elements of the kernel, and finding obstructions.
  This paper presents new low-complexity lattice-decoding algorithms for
noncoherent block detection of QAM and PAM signals over complex-valued fading
channels. The algorithms are optimal in terms of the generalized likelihood
ratio test (GLRT). The computational complexity is polynomial in the block
length; making GLRT-optimal noncoherent detection feasible for implementation.
We also provide even lower complexity suboptimal algorithms. Simulations show
that the suboptimal algorithms have performance indistinguishable from the
optimal algorithms. Finally, we consider block based transmission, and propose
to use noncoherent detection as an alternative to pilot assisted transmission
(PAT). The new technique is shown to outperform PAT.
  Based on large N Chern-Simons/topological string duality, in a series of
papers, J.M.F. Labastida, M. Marino, H. Ooguri and C. Vafa conjectured certain
remarkable new algebraic structure of link invariants and the existence of
infinite series of new integer invariants. In this paper, we provide a proof of
this conjecture. Moreover, we also show these new integer invariants vanish at
large genera.
  We introduce a new class of actions of the group $\G$ on finite von Neumann
algebras and call them twisted Bernoulli shift actions. We classify these
actions up to conjugacy and give an explicit description of their centralizers.
We also distinguish many of those actions on the AFD $\mathrm{II}_1$ factor in
view of outer conjugacy.
  We prove a sharp Lp estimate for a singular Radon transform according to a
size condition of its kernel, which is useful for extrapolation.
  In the second paper of this series, I obtained the twisted BRST systems and
extended physical-state conditions of all twisted open and closed $\hat{c} =
52$ strings. In this paper, I supplement the extended physical-state conditions
with the explicit form of the extended (twisted) Virasoro generators of all
$\hat{c} = 52$ strings, which allows us to discuss the physical spectra of
these systems. Surprisingly, all the $\hat{c}=52$ spectra admit an equivalent
description in terms of generically-unconventional Virasoro generators at
$c=26$. This description strongly supports our prior conjecture that the
$\hat{c}=52$ strings are free of negative-norm states, and moreover shows that
the spectra of some of the simpler cases are equivalent to those of ordinary
untwisted open and closed $c=26$ strings.
  In this work, we are interested in a non symmetric homogeneous space, namely
$SO(2m)/Sp(m)$. We show that this space admits a structure of $Z_2^2$-symmetric
space. We describe all the non degenerated metrics and classify the Riemannian
and Lorentzian ones.
  This paper studies the construction of geometric integrators for nonholonomic
systems. We derive the nonholonomic discrete Euler-Lagrange equations in a
setting which permits to deduce geometric integrators for continuous
nonholonomic systems (reduced or not). The formalism is given in terms of Lie
groupoids, specifying a discrete Lagrangian and a constraint submanifold on it.
Additionally, it is necessary to fix a vector subbundle of the Lie algebroid
associated to the Lie groupoid. We also discuss the existence of nonholonomic
evolution operators in terms of the discrete nonholonomic Legendre
transformations and in terms of adequate decompositions of the prolongation of
the Lie groupoid. The characterization of the reversibility of the evolution
operator and the discrete nonholonomic momentum equation are also considered.
Finally, we illustrate with several classical examples the wide range of
application of the theory (the discrete nonholonomic constrained particle, the
Suslov system, the Chaplygin sleigh, the Veselova system, the rolling ball on a
rotating table and the two wheeled planar mobile robot).
  We construct a quantum theory of free fermion field based on the generalized
uncertainty principle using supersymmetry as a guiding principle. A
supersymmetric field theory with a real scalar field and a Majorana fermion
field is given explicitly and we also find that the supersymmetry algebra is
deformed from an usual one.
  P.J.Cameron introduced the orbit algebra of a permutation group and
conjectured that this algebra is an integral domain if and only if the group
has no finite orbit. We prove that this conjecture holds and in fact that the
age algebra of a relational structure $R$ is an integral domain if and only if
$R$ is age-inexhaustible. We deduce these results from a combinatorial lemma
asserting that if a product of two non-zero elements of a set algebra is zero
then there is a finite common tranversal of their supports. The proof is built
on Ramsey theorem and the integrity of a shuffle algebra.
  If a finite group action $\alpha$ on a unital $C^*$-algebra $M$ is saturated,
the canonical conditional expectation $E:M\to M^\alpha$ onto the fixed point
algebra is known to be of index finite type with $Index(E)=|G|$ in the sense of
Watatani. More generally if a finite dimensional Hopf $*$-algebra $A$ acts on
$M$ and the action is saturated, the same is true with $Index (E)=\dim(A)$. In
this paper we prove that the converse is true. Especially in case $M$ is a
commutative $C^*$-algebra $C(X)$ and $\alpha$ is a finite group action, we give
an equivalent condition in order that the expectation $E:C(X)\to C(X)^\alpha$
is of index finite type, from which we obtain that $\alpha$ is saturated if and
only if $G$ acts freely on $X$.
  Actions by compact groups are also considered to show that the gauge action
$\gamma$ on a graph $C^*$-algebra $C^*(E)$ associated with a locally finite
directed graph $E$ is saturated.
  We study the question when for a given *-algebra $\mathcal{A}$ a sequence of
cones $C_n\in M_n(\mathcal{A})$ can be realized as cones of positive operators
in a faithful *-representation of $\mathcal{A}$ on a Hilbert space. A
characterization of operator algebras which are completely boundedly isomorphic
to $C\sp*$-algebras is presented.
  We investigate if a unital C(X)-algebra is properly infinite when all its
fibres are properly infinite. We show that this question can be rephrased in
several different ways, including the question if every unital properly
infinite C*-algebra is K_1-injective. We provide partial answers to these
questions, and we show that the general question on proper infiniteness of
C(X)-algebras can be reduced to establishing proper infiniteness of a specific
C([0,1])-algebra with properly infinite fibres.
  The Donald-Flanigan conjecture asserts that for any finite group and for any
field, the corresponding group algebra can be deformed to a separable algebra.
The minimal unsolved instance, namely the quaternion group over a field of
characteristic 2 was considered as a counterexample. We present here a
separable deformation of the quaternion group algebra. In a sense, the
conjecture for any finite group is open again.
  Let $E$ be a primarily quasilocal field, $M/E$ a finite Galois extension and
$D$ a central division $E$-algebra of index divisible by $[M\colon E]$. In
addition to the main result of Part I, this part of the paper shows that if the
Galois group $G(M/E)$ is not nilpotent, then $M$ does not necessarily embed in
$D$ as an $E$-subalgebra. When $E$ is quasilocal, we find the structure of the
character group of its absolute Galois group; this enables us to prove that if
$E$ is strictly quasilocal and almost perfect, then the divisible part of the
multiplicative group $E ^{\ast}$ equals the intersection of the norm groups of
finite Galois extensions of $E$.
  We give a simpler proof as well as a generalization of the main result of an
article of Shestakov and Umirbaev. This latter article being the first of two
that solve a long-standing conjecture about the non-tameness, or "wildness", of
Nagata's automorphism. As corollaries we get interesting informations about the
leading terms of polynomials forming an automorphism in any dimension and
reprove the tameness of automorphisms in dimension two.
  A library of C functions yielding exact solutions of potential and flux
influences due to uniform surface distribution of singularities on flat
triangular and rectangular elements has been developed. This library, ISLES,
has been used to develop the neBEM solver that is both precise and fast in
solving a wide range of problems of scientific and technological interest. Here
we present the exact expressions proposed for computing the influence of
uniform singularity distributions on triangular elements and illustrate their
accuracy. We also present a study concerning the time taken to evaluate these
long and complicated expressions \textit{vis a vis} that spent in carrying out
simple quadratures. Finally, we solve a classic benchmark problem in
electrostatics, namely, estimation of the capacitance of a unit square plate
raised to unit volt. For this problem, we present the estimated values of
capacitance and compare them successfully with some of the most accurate
results available in the literature. In addition, we present the variation of
the charge density close to the corner of the plate for various degrees of
discretization. The variations are found to be smooth and converging. This is
in clear contrast to the criticism commonly leveled against usual BEM solvers.
  We study the high--energy limit for eigenfunctions of the laplacian, on a
compact negatively curved manifold. We review the recent result of
Anantharaman-Nonnenmacher giving a lower bound on the Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy
of semiclassical measures, and improve this lower bound in the case of variable
negative curvature.
  We show that Green function methods can be straightforwardly applied to
nonlinear equations appearing as the leading order of a short time expansion.
Higher order corrections can be then computed giving a satisfactory agreement
with numerical results. The relevance of these results relies on the
possibility of fully exploiting a gradient expansion in both classical and
quantum field theory granting the existence of a strong coupling expansion.
Having a Green function in this regime in quantum field theory amounts to
obtain the corresponding spectrum of the theory.
  Computational asymmetry, i.e., the discrepancy between the complexity of
transformations and the complexity of their inverses, is at the core of one-way
transformations. We introduce a computational asymmetry function that measures
the amount of one-wayness of permutations. We also introduce the word-length
asymmetry function for groups, which is an algebraic analogue of computational
asymmetry. We relate boolean circuits to words in a Thompson monoid, over a
fixed generating set, in such a way that circuit size is equal to word-length.
Moreover, boolean circuits have a representation in terms of elements of a
Thompson group, in such a way that circuit size is polynomially equivalent to
word-length. We show that circuits built with gates that are not constrained to
have fixed-length inputs and outputs, are at most quadratically more compact
than circuits built from traditional gates (with fixed-length inputs and
outputs). Finally, we show that the computational asymmetry function is closely
related to certain distortion functions: The computational asymmetry function
is polynomially equivalent to the distortion of the path length in Schreier
graphs of certain Thompson groups, compared to the path length in Cayley graphs
of certain Thompson monoids. We also show that the results of Razborov and
others on monotone circuit complexity lead to exponential lower bounds on
certain distortions.
  Let T be a random field invariant under the action of a compact group G We
give conditions ensuring that independence of the random Fourier coefficients
is equivalent to Gaussianity. As a consequence, in general it is not possible
to simulate a non-Gaussian invariant random field through its Fourier expansion
using independent coefficients.
  We prove that a compact quantum group is coamenable if and only if its
corepresentation ring is amenable. We further propose a Foelner condition for
compact quantum groups and prove it to be equivalent to coamenability. Using
this Foelner condition, we prove that for a coamenable compact quantum group
with tracial Haar state, the enveloping von Neumann algebra is dimension flat
over the Hopf algebra of matrix coefficients. This generalizes a theorem of
Lueck from the group case to the quantum group case, and provides examples of
compact quantum groups with vanishing L^2-Betti numbers.
  We consider the problem of estimating the unconditional distribution of a
post-model-selection estimator. The notion of a post-model-selection estimator
here refers to the combined procedure resulting from first selecting a model
(e.g., by a model selection criterion like AIC or by a hypothesis testing
procedure) and then estimating the parameters in the selected model (e.g., by
least-squares or maximum likelihood), all based on the same data set. We show
that it is impossible to estimate the unconditional distribution with
reasonable accuracy even asymptotically. In particular, we show that no
estimator for this distribution can be uniformly consistent (not even locally).
This follows as a corollary to (local) minimax lower bounds on the performance
of estimators for the distribution; performance is here measured by the
probability that the estimation error exceeds a given threshold. These lower
bounds are shown to approach 1/2 or even 1 in large samples, depending on the
situation considered. Similar impossibility results are also obtained for the
distribution of linear functions (e.g., predictors) of the post-model-selection
estimator.
  Let X be an affine irreducible variety over an algebraically closed field k
of characteristic zero. Given an automorphism F, we denote by k(X)^F its field
of invariants, i.e. the set of rational functions f on X such that f(F)=f. Let
n(F) be the transcendence degree of k(X)^F over k. In this paper, we study the
class of automorphisms F of X for which n(F)= dim X - 1. More precisely, we
show that under some conditions on X, every such automorphism is of the form
F=A_g, where A is an algebraic action of a linear algebraic group G of
dimension 1 on X, and where g belongs to G. As an application, we determine the
conjugacy classes of automorphisms of the plane for which n(F)=1.
  In this paper, we present very first results for the adaptive solution on a
grid of the phase space of the Vlasov equation arising in particles accelarator
and plasma physics. The numerical algorithm is based on a semi-Lagrangian
method while adaptivity is obtained using multiresolution analysis.
  The concept of continuous topological evolution, based upon Cartan's methods
of exterior differential systems, is used to develop a topological theory of
non-equilibrium thermodynamics, within which there exist processes that exhibit
continuous topological change and thermodynamic irreversibility. The technique
furnishes a universal, topological foundation for the partial differential
equations of hydrodynamics and electrodynamics; the technique does not depend
upon a metric, connection or a variational principle. Certain topological
classes of solutions to the Navier-Stokes equations are shown to be equivalent
to thermodynamically irreversible processes.
  We give an alternative proof of the Benedicks-Carleson theorem on the
existence of strange attractors in H\'enon-like families in the plane. To
bypass a huge inductive argument, we introduce an induction-free explicit
definition of dynamically critical points. The argument is sufficiently general
and in particular applies to the case of non-invertible maps as well. It
naturally raises the question of an intrinsic characterization of dynamically
critical points for dissipative surface maps.
  We consider the energy current correlation function for the FPU-beta lattice.
For small non-linearity one can rely on kinetic theory. The issue reduces then
to a spectral analysis of the linearized collision operator. We prove thereby
that, on the basis of kinetic theory, the energy current correlations decay in
time as t^(-3/5). It follows that the thermal conductivity is anomalous,
increasing as N^(2/5) with the system size N.
  In this reply, we show that when we apply standard distribution theory to the
Lippmann-Schwinger equation, the resulting spaces of test functions would
comply with the Hardy axiom only if classic results of Paley and Wiener, of
Gelfand and Shilov, and of the theory of ultradistributions were wrong. As
well, we point out several differences between the ``standard method'' of
constructing rigged Hilbert spaces in quantum mechanics and the method used in
Time Asymmetric Quantum Theory.
  In this paper, we compare several functors which take simplicial categories
or model categories to complete Segal spaces, which are particularly nice
simplicial spaces which, like simplicial categories, can be considered to be
models for homotopy theories. We then give a characterization, up to weak
equivalence, of complete Segal spaces arising from these functors.
  We study the mixing time of a systematic scan Markov chain for sampling from
the uniform distribution on proper 7-colourings of a finite rectangular
sub-grid of the infinite square lattice, the grid. A systematic scan Markov
chain cycles through finite-size subsets of vertices in a deterministic order
and updates the colours assigned to the vertices of each subset. The systematic
scan Markov chain that we present cycles through subsets consisting of 2x2
sub-grids and updates the colours assigned to the vertices using a procedure
known as heat-bath. We give a computer-assisted proof that this systematic scan
Markov chain mixes in O(log n) scans, where n is the size of the rectangular
sub-grid. We make use of a heuristic to compute required couplings of
colourings of 2x2 sub-grids. This is the first time the mixing time of a
systematic scan Markov chain on the grid has been shown to mix for less than 8
colours. We also give partial results that underline the challenges of proving
rapid mixing of a systematic scan Markov chain for sampling 6-colourings of the
grid by considering 2x3 and 3x3 sub-grids.
  We compute the scattering amplitude for Schr\"odinger operators at a critical
energy level, corresponding to the maximum point of the potential. We follow
the wrok of Robert and Tamura, '89, using Isozaki and Kitada's representation
formula for the scattering amplitude, together with results from Bony, Fujiie,
Ramond and Zerzeri '06 in order to analyze the contribution of trapped
trajectories.
  We study the model theory of expansions of Hilbert spaces by generic
predicates. We first prove the existence of model companions for generic
expansions of Hilbert spaces in the form first of a distance function to a
random substructure, then a distance to a random subset. The theory obtained
with the random substructure is {\omega}-stable, while the one obtained with
the distance to a random subset is $TP_2$ and $NSOP_1$. That example is the
first continuous structure in that class.
  We obtain a set of generalized eigenvectors that provides a generalized
spectral decomposition for a given unitary representation of a commutative,
locally compact topological group. These generalized eigenvectors are
functionals belonging to the dual space of a rigging on the space of square
integrable functions on the character group. These riggings are obtained
through suitable spectral measure spaces.
  We prove that hyperbolic groups are weakly amenable. This partially extends
the result of Cowling and Haagerup showing that lattices in simple Lie groups
of real rank one are weakly amenable. We take a combinatorial approach in the
spirit of Haagerup and prove that for the word length metric d on a hyperbolic
group, the Schur multipliers associated with r^d have uniformly bounded norms
for 0<r<1. We then combine this with a Bozejko-Picardello type inequality to
obtain weak amenability.
  Let L be an ample holomorphic line bundle over a compact complex Hermitian
manifold X. Any fixed smooth Hermitian metric on L induces a Hilbert space
structure on the space of global holomorphic sections with values in the k:th
tensor power of L. In this paper various convergence results are obtained for
the corresponding Bergman kernels. The convergence is studied in the large k
limit and is expressed in terms of the equilibrium metric associated to the
fixed metric, as well as in terms of the Monge-Ampere measure of the fixed
metric itself on a certain support set. It is also shown that the equilibrium
metric has Lipschitz continuous first derivatives. These results can be seen as
generalizations of well-known results concerning the case when the curvature of
the fixed metric is positive (the corresponding equilibrium metric is then
simply the fixed metric itself).
  We give necessary and sufficient conditions for the (bounded) law of the
iterated logarithm for $U$-statistics in Hilbert spaces. As a tool we also
develop moment and tail estimates for canonical Hilbert-space valued
$U$-statistics of arbitrary order, which are of independent interest.
  The algorithm given by Akbulut-Ozbagci constructs an explicit open book
decomposition on a contact three-manifold described by a contact surgery on a
link in the three-sphere. In this article, we will improve this algorithm by
using Giroux's contact cell decomposition process. Our algorithm is more
economical on choosing the supporting genus of the open book; in particular it
gives a good upper bound for the recently defined ``minimal supporting genus
invariant'' of contact structures.
  This paper derives an explicit formula for Branson's Q-curvature in
even-dimensional conformal geometry. The ingredients in the formula come from
the Poincare metric in one higher dimension; hence the formula is called
holographic. When specialized to the conformally flat case, the holographic
formula expresses Q-curvature as a multiple of the Pfaffian and the divergence
of a natural one-form. The paper also outlines the relation between holographic
formulae for Q-curvature and a new theory of conformally covariant families of
differential operators due to the second author.
  In this note the notions of trace compatible operators and infinitesimal
spectral flow are introduced. We define the spectral shift function as the
integral of infinitesimal spectral flow. It is proved that the spectral shift
function thus defined is absolutely continuous and Krein's formula is
established. Some examples of trace compatible affine spaces of operators are
given.
  In the recent progress [BE1], [M], [Z1] and [Z2], the well-known Jacobian
conjecture ([BCW], [E]) has been reduced to a problem on HN (Hessian nilpotent)
polynomials (the polynomials whose Hessian matrix are nilpotent) and their
(deformed) inversion pairs. In this paper, we prove several results on HN
polynomials, their (deformed) inversion pairs as well as the associated
symmetric polynomial or formal maps. We also propose some open problems for
further study of these objects.
  Let $z=(z_1, ..., z_n)$ and $\Delta=\sum_{i=1}^n \frac {\partial^2}{\partial
z^2_i}$ the Laplace operator. A formal power series $P(z)$ is said to be {\it
Hessian Nilpotent}(HN) if its Hessian matrix $\Hes P(z)=(\frac {\partial^2
P}{\partial z_i\partial z_j})$ is nilpotent. In recent developments in [BE1],
[M] and [Z], the Jacobian conjecture has been reduced to the following
so-called {\it vanishing conjecture}(VC) of HN polynomials: {\it for any
homogeneous HN polynomial $P(z)$ $($of degree $d=4$$)$, we have $\Delta^m
P^{m+1}(z)=0$ for any $m>>0$.} In this paper, we first show that, the VC holds
for any homogeneous HN polynomial $P(z)$ provided that the projective
subvarieties ${\mathcal Z}_P$ and ${\mathcal Z}_{\sigma_2}$ of $\mathbb C
P^{n-1}$ determined by the principal ideals generated by $P(z)$ and
$\sigma_2(z):=\sum_{i=1}^n z_i^2$, respectively, intersect only at regular
points of ${\mathcal Z}_P$. Consequently, the Jacobian conjecture holds for the
symmetric polynomial maps $F=z-\nabla P$ with $P(z)$ HN if $F$ has no non-zero
fixed point $w\in \mathbb C^n$ with $\sum_{i=1}^n w_i^2=0$. Secondly, we show
that the VC holds for a HN formal power series $P(z)$ if and only if, for any
polynomial $f(z)$, $\Delta^m (f(z)P(z)^m)=0$ when $m>>0$.
  In the recent progress [BE1], [Me] and [Z2], the well-known JC (Jacobian
conjecture) ([BCW], [E]) has been reduced to a VC (vanishing conjecture) on the
Laplace operators and HN (Hessian nilpotent) polynomials (the polynomials whose
Hessian matrix are nilpotent). In this paper, we first show that the vanishing
conjecture above, hence also the JC, is equivalent to a vanishing conjecture
for all 2nd order homogeneous differential operators $\Lambda$ and
$\Lambda$-nilpotent polynomials $P$ (the polynomials $P(z)$ satisfying
$\Lambda^m P^m=0$ for all $m\ge 1$). We then transform some results in the
literature on the JC, HN polynomials and the VC of the Laplace operators to
certain results on $\Lambda$-nilpotent polynomials and the associated VC for
2nd order homogeneous differential operators $\Lambda$. This part of the paper
can also be read as a short survey on HN polynomials and the associated VC in
the more general setting. Finally, we discuss a still-to-be-understood
connection of $\Lambda$-nilpotent polynomials in general with the classical
orthogonal polynomials in one or more variables. This connection provides a
conceptual understanding for the isotropic properties of homogeneous
$\Lambda$-nilpotent polynomials for the 2nd order homogeneous full rank
differential operators $\Lambda$ with constant coefficients.
  A k-query Locally Decodable Code (LDC) encodes an n-bit message x as an N-bit
codeword C(x), such that one can probabilistically recover any bit x_i of the
message by querying only k bits of the codeword C(x), even after some constant
fraction of codeword bits has been corrupted. The major goal of LDC related
research is to establish the optimal trade-off between length and query
complexity of such codes.
  Recently [Y] introduced a novel technique for constructing locally decodable
codes and vastly improved the upper bounds for code length. The technique is
based on Mersenne primes. In this paper we extend the work of [Y] and argue
that further progress via these methods is tied to progress on an old number
theory question regarding the size of the largest prime factors of Mersenne
numbers.
  Specifically, we show that every Mersenne number m=2^t-1 that has a prime
factor p>m^\gamma yields a family of k(\gamma)-query locally decodable codes of
length Exp(n^{1/t}). Conversely, if for some fixed k and all \epsilon > 0 one
can use the technique of [Y] to obtain a family of k-query LDCs of length
Exp(n^\epsilon); then infinitely many Mersenne numbers have prime factors arger
than known currently.
  The SOM algorithm is very astonishing. On the one hand, it is very simple to
write down and to simulate, its practical properties are clear and easy to
observe. But, on the other hand, its theoretical properties still remain
without proof in the general case, despite the great efforts of several
authors. In this paper, we pass in review the last results and provide some
conjectures for the future work.
  Let K be any field and G be a finite group. We will prove that, if K is any
field, p an odd prime number, and G is a non-abelian group of exponent p with
|G|=p^3 or p^4 satisfying [K(\zeta_p):K] <= 2, then K(G) is rational over K. We
will also show that K(G) is retract rational if G belongs to a much larger
class of p-groups. In particular, generic G-polynomials of G-Galois extensions
exist for these groups.
  Let K be any field and G be a finite group. Noether's problem asks whether
the fixed field is rational (=purely transcendental) over K. We will prove that
if G is a non-abelian p-group of order p^n containing a cyclic subgroup of
index p and K is any field containing a primitive p^{n-2}-th root of unity,
then K(G) is rational over K.
  We prove that the canonical volume $K^3\geq {1/30}$ for all projective
3-folds of general type with $\chi(\mathcal{O})\leq 0$. This bound is sharp.
  In the one-parameter family of power-law maps of the form
$f_a(x)=-|x|^{\alpha}+a,$ $\alpha >1,$ we give examples of mutually related
dynamically determined quantities, depending on the parameter $a$, such that
one is a Pick function of the following one. These Pick functions are
extendable by reflection through the $(1,+\infty)$ half-axis and have
completely monotone derivatives there.
  Let G be a complex, connected, reductive algebraic group with Weyl group W
and Steinberg variety Z. We show that the graded Borel-Moore homology of Z is
isomorphic to the smash product of the coinvariant algebra of W and the group
algebra of W.
  A latin bitrade is a pair of partial latin squares which are disjoint, occupy
the same set of non-empty cells, and whose corresponding rows and columns
contain the same set of entries. Dr\'apal (\cite{Dr9}) showed that a latin
bitrade is equivalent to three derangements whose product is the identity and
whose cycles pairwise have at most one point in common. By letting a group act
on itself by right translation, we show how some latin bitrades may be derived
from groups without specifying an independent group action. Properties of latin
trades such as homogeneousness, minimality (via thinness) and orthogonality may
also be encoded succinctly within the group structure. We apply the
construction to some well-known groups, constructing previously unknown latin
bitrades. In particular, we show the existence of minimal, $k$-homogeneous
latin trades for each odd $k\geq 3$. In some cases these are the smallest known
such examples.
  Let f,g be two algebraically independent regular functions from the smooth
affine complex variety U to the affine line. The associated exponential
Gauss-Manin systems on the affine line are defined to be the cohomology sheaves
of the direct image of the exponential differential system $\mathcal{O}_U e^g $
with respect to f. We prove that its holomorphic solutions admit
representations in terms of period integrals over topological chains with
possibly closed support and with rapid decay condition.
  This paper is devoted to finding solutions of polynomial equations in roots
of unity. It was conjectured by S. Lang and proved by M. Laurent that all such
solutions can be described in terms of a finite number of parametric families
called maximal torsion cosets. We obtain new explicit upper bounds for the
number of maximal torsion cosets on an algebraic subvariety of the complex
algebraic $n$-torus ${\mathbb G}_{\rm m}^n$. In contrast to earlier works that
give the bounds of polynomial growth in the maximum total degree of defining
polynomials, the proofs of our results are constructive. This allows us to
obtain a new algorithm for determining maximal torsion cosets on an algebraic
subvariety of ${\mathbb G}_{\rm m}^n$.
  While most useful information theoretic inequalities can be deduced from the
basic properties of entropy or mutual information, up to now Shannon's entropy
power inequality (EPI) is an exception: Existing information theoretic proofs
of the EPI hinge on representations of differential entropy using either Fisher
information or minimum mean-square error (MMSE), which are derived from de
Bruijn's identity. In this paper, we first present an unified view of these
proofs, showing that they share two essential ingredients: 1) a data processing
argument applied to a covariance-preserving linear transformation; 2) an
integration over a path of a continuous Gaussian perturbation. Using these
ingredients, we develop a new and brief proof of the EPI through a mutual
information inequality, which replaces Stam and Blachman's Fisher information
inequality (FII) and an inequality for MMSE by Guo, Shamai and Verd\'u used in
earlier proofs. The result has the advantage of being very simple in that it
relies only on the basic properties of mutual information. These ideas are then
generalized to various extended versions of the EPI: Zamir and Feder's
generalized EPI for linear transformations of the random variables, Takano and
Johnson's EPI for dependent variables, Liu and Viswanath's
covariance-constrained EPI, and Costa's concavity inequality for the entropy
power.
  Given a conditionally completely positive map $\mathcal L$ on a unital
$\ast$-algebra $\A$, we find an interesting connection between the second
Hochschild cohomology of $\A$ with coefficients in the bimodule $E_{\mathcal
L}=\B^a(\A \oplus M)$ of adjointable maps, where $M$ is the GNS bimodule of
$\mathcal L$, and the possibility of constructing a quantum random walk (in the
sense of \cite{AP,LP,L,KBS}) corresponding to $\mathcal L$.
  This is the first in a series of papers in which we study vertex-algebraic
structure of Feigin-Stoyanovsky's principal subspaces associated to standard
modules for both untwisted and twisted affine Lie algebras. A key idea is to
prove suitable presentations of principal subspaces, without using bases or
even ``small'' spanning sets of these spaces. In this paper we prove
presentations of the principal subspaces of the basic A_1^(1)-modules. These
convenient presentations were previously used in work of
Capparelli-Lepowsky-Milas for the purpose of obtaining the classical
Rogers-Ramanujan recursion for the graded dimensions of the principal
subspaces.
  Another approach to constructing an upper bound for the Riemann-Farey sum is
described.
  Generalization of the Kac integral and Kac method for paths measure based on
the Levy distribution has been used to derive fractional diffusion equation.
Application to nonlinear fractional Ginzburg-Landau equation is discussed.
  We consider a nearest-neighbor, one dimensional random walk
$\{X_n\}_{n\geq0}$ in a random i.i.d. environment, in the regime where the walk
is transient but with zero speed, so that $X_n$ is of order $n^s$ for some
$s<1$. Under the quenched law (i.e., conditioned on the environment), we show
that no limit laws are possible: There exist sequences $\{n_k\}$ and $\{x_k\}$
depending on the environment only, such that $X_{n_k}-x_k=o(\log n_k)^2$ (a
localized regime). On the other hand, there exist sequences $\{t_m\}$ and
$\{s_m\}$ depending on the environment only, such that $\log s_m/\log t_m\to
s<1$ and $P_{\omega}(X_{t_m}/s_m\leq x)\to1/2$ for all $x>0$ and $\to0$ for
$x\leq0$ (a spread out regime).
  We consider hydrodynamic systems which possess a local Hamiltonian structure
of Dubrovin-Novikov type. To such a system there are also associated an
infinite number of nonlocal Hamiltonian structures. We give necessary and
sufficient conditions so that, after a nonlinear transformation of the
independent variables, the reciprocal system still possesses a local
Hamiltonian structure of Dubrovin-Novikov type. We show that, under our
hypotheses, bi-hamiltonicity is preserved by the reciprocal transformation.
Finally we apply such results to reciprocal systems of genus g Whitham-KdV
modulation equations.
  We define the Euler number of a bipartite graph on $n$ vertices to be the
number of labelings of the vertices with $1,2,...,n$ such that the vertices
alternate in being local maxima and local minima. We reformulate the problem of
computing the Euler number of certain subgraphs of the Cartesian product of a
graph $G$ with the path $P_m$ in terms of self adjoint operators. The
asymptotic expansion of the Euler number is given in terms of the eigenvalues
of the associated operator. For two classes of graphs, the comb graphs and the
Cartesian product $P_2 \Box P_m$, we numerically solve the eigenvalue problem.
  We apply recent bounds of the author (math.PR/0609224) for generalized
Smirnov statistics to the distribution of integers whose prime factors satisfy
certain systems of inequalities.
  The structure of anticyclic operad on the Dendriform operad defines in
particular a matrix of finite order acting on the vector space spanned by
planar binary trees. We compute its characteristic polynomial and propose a
(compatible) conjecture for the characteristic polynomial of the Coxeter
transformation for the Tamari lattice, which is mostly a square root of this
matrix.
  In this paper we extend the notion of ``filtration-consistent nonlinear
expectation" (or "${\cal F}$-consistent nonlinear expectation") to the case
when it is allowed to be dominated by a $g$-expectation that may have a
quadratic growth. We show that for such a nonlinear expectation many
fundamental properties of a martingale can still make sense, including the
Doob-Meyer type decomposition theorem and the optional sampling theorem. More
importantly, we show that any quadratic ${\cal F}$-consistent nonlinear
expectation with a certain domination property must be a quadratic
$g$-expectation. The main contribution of this paper is the finding of the
domination condition to replace the one used in all the previous works, which
is no longer valid in the quadratic case. We also show that the representation
generator must be deterministic, continuous, and actually must be of the simple
form.
  We report on recent progress in the program to classify separable amenable
C*-algebras. Our emphasis is on the newly apparent role of regularity
properties such as finite decomposition rank, strict comparison of positive
elements, and Z-stability, and on the importance of the Cuntz semigroup. We
include a brief history of the program's successes since 1989, a more detailed
look at the Villadsen-type algebras which have so dramatically changed the
landscape, and a collection of announcements on the structure and properties of
the Cuntz semigroup.
  Given an isometric immersion $f\colon M^n\to \R^{n+1}$ of a compact
Riemannian manifold of dimension $n\geq 3$ into Euclidean space of dimension
$n+1$, we prove that the identity component $Iso^0(M^n)$ of the isometry group
$Iso(M^n)$ of $M^n$ admits an orthogonal representation $\Phi\colon
Iso^0(M^n)\to SO(n+1)$ such that $f\circ g=\Phi(g)\circ f$ for every $g\in
Iso^0(M^n)$. If $G$ is a closed connected subgroup of $Iso(M^n)$ acting locally
polarly on $M^n$, we prove that $\Phi(G)$ acts polarly on $\R^{n+1}$, and we
obtain that $f(M^n)$ is given as $\Phi(G)(L)$, where $L$ is a hypersurface of a
section which is invariant under the Weyl group of the $\Phi(G)$-action. We
also find several sufficient conditions for such an $f$ to be a rotation
hypersurface. Finally, we show that compact Euclidean rotation hypersurfaces of
dimension $n\geq 3$ are characterized by their underlying warped product
structure.
  We describe and analyze the joint source/channel coding properties of a class
of sparse graphical codes based on compounding a low-density generator matrix
(LDGM) code with a low-density parity check (LDPC) code. Our first pair of
theorems establish that there exist codes from this ensemble, with all degrees
remaining bounded independently of block length, that are simultaneously
optimal as both source and channel codes when encoding and decoding are
performed optimally. More precisely, in the context of lossy compression, we
prove that finite degree constructions can achieve any pair $(R, D)$ on the
rate-distortion curve of the binary symmetric source. In the context of channel
coding, we prove that finite degree codes can achieve any pair $(C, p)$ on the
capacity-noise curve of the binary symmetric channel. Next, we show that our
compound construction has a nested structure that can be exploited to achieve
the Wyner-Ziv bound for source coding with side information (SCSI), as well as
the Gelfand-Pinsker bound for channel coding with side information (CCSI).
Although the current results are based on optimal encoding and decoding, the
proposed graphical codes have sparse structure and high girth that renders them
well-suited to message-passing and other efficient decoding procedures.
  We introduce certain energy functionals to the complex Monge-Ampere equation
over a bounded domain with inhomogeneous boundary condition, and use these
functionals to show the convergence of the solution to the parabolic
Monge-Ampere equation.
  We compute the cohomology of crystallographic groups with holonomy of prime
order. As an application we compute the group of gerbes associated to many
six--dimensional toroidal orbifolds arising in string theory.
  The aim of this paper is to study the $d$-dimensional stochastic heat
equation with a multiplicative Gaussian noise which is white in space and it
has the covariance of a fractional Brownian motion with Hurst parameter $% H\in
(0,1)$ in time. Two types of equations are considered. First we consider the
equation in the It\^{o}-Skorohod sense, and later in the Stratonovich sense. An
explicit chaos development for the solution is obtained. On the other hand, the
moments of the solution are expressed in terms of the exponential moments of
some weighted intersection local time of the Brownian motion.
  In this paper we present a new algebraic structure (a super hyperbolic system
in our terminology) for finite quantum systems, which is a generalization of
the usual one in the two-level system.
  It fits into the so-called generalized Pauli matrices, so they play an
important role in the theory. Some deep relation to the modified Bessel
functions of integer order is pointed out.
  By taking a skillful limit finite quantum systems become quantum mechanics on
the circle developed by Ohnuki and Kitakado.
  Dipper, James and Murphy generalized the classical Specht module theory to
Hecke algebras of type $B_n$. On the other hand, for any choice of a monomial
order on the parameters in type $B_n$, we obtain corresponding Kazhdan--Lusztig
cell modules. In this paper, we show that the Specht modules are naturally
equivalent to the Kazhdan--Lusztig cell modules {\em if} we choose the
dominance order on the parameters, as in the ``asymptotic case'' studied by
Bonnaf\'e and the second named author. We also give examples which show that
such an equivalence does not hold for other choices of monomial orders.
  Let $M^{4n}$ be a complete quaternionic K\"ahler manifold with scalar
curvature bounded below by $-16n(n+2)$. We get a sharp estimate for the first
eigenvalue $\lambda_1(M)$ of the Laplacian which is $\lambda_1(M)\le (2n+1)^2$.
If the equality holds, then either $M$ has only one end, or $M$ is
diffeomorphic to $\mathbb{R}\times N$ with N given by a compact manifold.
Moreover, if $M$ is of bounded curvature, $M$ is covered by the quaterionic
hyperbolic space $\mathbb{QH}^n$ and $N$ is a compact quotient of the
generalized Heisenberg group. When $\lambda_1(M)\ge \frac{8(n+2)}3$, we also
prove that $M$ must have only one end with infinite volume.
  Radial convolution operators on free groups with nonnegative kernel of weak
type $(2,2)$ and of restricted weak type $(2,2)$ are characterized. Estimates
of weak type $(p,p)$ are obtained as well for $1<p<2.$
  We study that a solution of the initial value problem associated for the
coupled system of equations of Korteweg - de Vries type which appears as a
model to describe the strong interaction of weakly nonlinear long waves, has
analyticity in time and smoothing effect up to real analyticity if the initial
data only has a single point singularity at $x=0.$
  We study local and global existence and smoothing properties for the initial
value problem associated to a higher order nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation
with constant coefficients which appears as a model for propagation of pulse in
optical fiber.
  Let $f\in L_{2\pi}$ be a real-valued even function with its Fourier series $
\frac{a_{0}}{2}+\sum_{n=1}^{\infty}a_{n}\cos nx,$ and let $S_{n}(f,x), n\geq
1,$ be the $n$-th partial sum of the Fourier series. It is well-known that if
the nonnegative sequence $\{a_{n}\}$ is decreasing and $\lim\limits_{n\to
\infty}a_{n}=0$, then $$ \lim\limits_{n\to \infty}\Vert f-S_{n}(f)\Vert_{L}=0
{if and only if} \lim\limits_{n\to \infty}a_{n}\log n=0. $$ We weaken the
monotone condition in this classical result to the so-called mean value bounded
variation ($MVBV$) condition. The generalization of the above classical result
in real-valued function space is presented as a special case of the main result
in this paper which gives the $L^{1}$% -convergence of a function $f\in
L_{2\pi}$ in complex space. We also give results on $L^{1}$-approximation of a
function $f\in L_{2\pi}$ under the $% MVBV$ condition.
  In this paper, we consider the Cauchy problem for Klein-Gordon equation with
a cubic convolution nonlinearity in $\R^3$. By making use of Bourgain's method
in conjunction with a precise Strichartz estimate of S.Klainerman and D.Tataru,
we establish the $H^s (s<1)$ global well-posedness of the Cauchy problem for
the cubic convolution defocusing Klein-Gordon-Hartree equation. Before arriving
at the previously discussed conclusion, we obtain global solution for this
non-scaling equation with small initial data in $H^{s_0}\times H^{s_0-1}$ where
$s_0=\frac\gamma 6$ but not $\frac\gamma2-1$, for this equation that we
consider is a subconformal equation in some sense. In doing so a number of
nonlinear prior estimates are already established by using Bony's
decomposition, flexibility of Klein-Gordon admissible pairs which are slightly
different from that of wave equation and a commutator estimate. We establish
this commutator estimate by exploiting cancellation property and utilizing
Coifman and Meyer multilinear multiplier theorem. As far as we know, it seems
that this is the first result on low regularity for this Klein-Gordon-Hartree
equation.
  We define Hecke operators on vector valued modular forms transforming with
the Weil representation associated to a discriminant form. We describe the
properties of the corresponding algebra of Hecke operators and study the action
on modular forms.
  In this paper, we propose an achievable rate region for discrete memoryless
interference channels with conferencing at the transmitter side. We employ
superposition block Markov encoding, combined with simultaneous superposition
coding, dirty paper coding, and random binning to obtain the achievable rate
region. We show that, under respective conditions, the proposed achievable
region reduces to Han and Kobayashi achievable region for interference
channels, the capacity region for degraded relay channels, and the capacity
region for the Gaussian vector broadcast channel. Numerical examples for the
Gaussian case are given.
  We simulate EM pulse propagation along the nonuniform earth surface using so
called time-domain parabolic equation. To solve it by finite differences, we
introduce a time-domain analog of the impedance boundary condition and a
nonlocal BC of transparency reducing open computational domain to a strip of
finite width. Numerical examples demonstrate influence of soil conductivity on
the wide-band pulse waveform. For a high-frequency modulated EM pulse, we
develop an asymptotic approach based on the ray structure of the monochromatic
wave field at carrier frequency. This radically diminishes the computation
costs and allows for pulsed wave field calculation in vast domains measured by
tens of thousands wavelengths.
  After reviewing classical Schur-Weyl duality, we present some other contexts
which enjoy similar features, relating to Brauer algebras and classical groups.
  We study the power sum problem max_{v=1,...,m} | sum_{k=1}^n z_k^v | and by
using features of Fejer kernels we give new lower bounds in the case of
unimodular complex numbers z_k and m cn^2 for constants c>1.
  We study combinatorial principles we call Homogeneity Principle HP(\kappa)
and Injectivity Principle IP(\kappa,\lambda) for regular \kappa>\aleph_1 and
\lambda\leq\kappa which are formulated in terms of coloring the ordinals
<\kappa by reals.
  The Kripke semantics of classical propositional normal modal logic is made
algebraic via an embedding of Kripke structures into the larger class of
pointed stably supported quantales. This algebraic semantics subsumes the
traditional algebraic semantics based on lattices with unary operators, and it
suggests natural interpretations of modal logic, of possible interest in the
applications, in structures that arise in geometry and analysis, such as
foliated manifolds and operator algebras, via topological groupoids and inverse
semigroups. We study completeness properties of the quantale based semantics
for the systems K, T, K4, S4, and S5, in particular obtaining an axiomatization
for S5 which does not use negation or the modal necessity operator. As
additional examples we describe intuitionistic propositional modal logic, the
logic of programs PDL, and the ramified temporal logic CTL.
  We develop the theory of N-homogeneous algebras in a super setting, with
particular emphasis on the Koszul property. To any Hecke operator on a vector
superspace, we associate certain superalgebras and generalizing the ordinary
symmetric and Grassmann algebra, respectively. We prove that these algebras are
N-Koszul. For the special case where the Hecke operator is the ordinary
supersymmetry, we derive an $N$-generalized super-version of MacMahon's
classical "master theorem".
  We give axioms which characterize the local Reidemeister trace for orientable
differentiable manifolds. The local Reidemeister trace in fixed point theory is
already known, and we provide both uniqueness and existence results for the
local Reidemeister trace in coincidence theory.
  I show that an (n+2)-dimensional n-Lie algebra over an algebraically closed
field must have a subalgeba of codimension 1.
  Each of the two moving observers observes the relative velocity of the other.
The two velocities should be equal and opposite. We have shown that this
relativistic requirement is not fulfilled by Lorentz transformation. We have
also shown that the reason is that Lorentz transformation is not associative.
Reciprocal symmetric transformation is associative and fulfills relativistic
requirements.
  We study the representations of the commutator subgroup K_{n} of the braid
group B_{n} into a finite group . This is done through a symbolic dynamical
system. Some experimental results enable us to compute the number of subgroups
of K_{n} of a given (finite) index, and, as a by-product, to recover the well
known fact that every representation of K_{n} into S_{r}, with n > r, must be
trivial.
  In view of the usefulness and importance of the kinetic equation in certain
physical problems, the authors derive the explicit solution of a fractional
kinetic equation of general character, that unifies and extends earlier
results. Further, an alternative shorter method based on a result developed by
the authors is given to derive the solution of a fractional diffusion equation.
  We introduce and study the notion of relative rigidity for pairs $(X,\JJ)$
where 1) $X$ is a hyperbolic metric space and $\JJ$ a collection of quasiconvex
sets 2) $X$ is a relatively hyperbolic group and $\JJ$ the collection of
parabolics 3) $X$ is a higher rank symmetric space and $\JJ$ an equivariant
collection of maximal flats Relative rigidity can roughly be described as
upgrading a uniformly proper map between two such $\JJ$'s to a quasi-isometry
between the corresponding $X$'s.
  A related notion is that of a $C$-complex which is the adaptation of a Tits
complex to this context. We prove the relative rigidity of the collection of
pairs $(X, \JJ)$ as above. This generalises a result of Schwarz for symmetric
patterns of geodesics in hyperbolic space. We show that a uniformly proper map
induces an isomorphism of the corresponding $C$-complexes. We also give a
couple of characterizations of quasiconvexity. of subgroups of hyperbolic
groups on the way.
  We propose and analyze a goal-oriented a posteriori error estimator for the
atomistic-continuum modeling error in the quasicontinuum method. Based on this
error estimator, we develop an algorithm which adaptively determines the
atomistic and continuum regions to compute a quantity of interest to within a
given tolerance. We apply the algorithm to the computation of the structure of
a crystallographic defect described by a Frenkel-Kontorova model and present
the results of numerical experiments. The numerical results show that our
method gives an efficient estimate of the error and a nearly optimal
atomistic-continuum modeling strategy.
  In spatially distributed multiuser antenna systems, the received signal
contains multiple carrier-frequency offsets (CFOs) arising from mismatch
between the oscillators of transmitters and receivers. This results in a
time-varying rotation of the data constellation, which needs to be compensated
at the receiver before symbol recovery. In this paper, a new approach for blind
CFO estimation and symbol recovery is proposed. The received base-band signal
is over-sampled, and its polyphase components are used to formulate a virtual
Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) problem. By applying blind MIMO system
estimation techniques, the system response can be estimated and decoupled
versions of the user symbols can be recovered, each one of which contains a
distinct CFO. By applying a decision feedback Phase Lock Loop (PLL), the CFO
can be mitigated and the transmitted symbols can be recovered. The estimated
MIMO system response provides information about the CFOs that can be used to
initialize the PLL, speed up its convergence, and avoid ambiguities usually
linked with PLL.
  The distribution function for the first eigenvalue spacing in the Laguerre
unitary ensemble of finite rank random matrices is found in terms of a
Painlev\'e V system, and the solution of its associated linear isomonodromic
system. In particular it is characterised by the polynomial solutions to the
isomonodromic equations which are also orthogonal with respect to a deformation
of the Laguerre weight. In the scaling to the hard edge regime we find an
analogous situation where a certain Painlev\'e \IIId system and its associated
linear isomonodromic system characterise the scaled distribution. We undertake
extensive analytical studies of this system and use this knowledge to
accurately compute the distribution and its moments for various values of the
parameter $ a $. In particular choosing $ a=\pm 1/2 $ allows the first
eigenvalue spacing distribution for random real orthogonal matrices to be
computed.
  We obtain a first order differential equation for the driving function of the
chordal Loewner differential equation in the case where the domain is slit by a
curve which is a trajectory arc of certain quadratic differentials. In
particular this includes the case when the curve is a path on the square,
triangle or hexagonal lattice in the upper halfplane or, indeed, in any domain
with boundary on the lattice. We also demonstrate how we use this to calculate
the driving function numerically. Equivalent results for other variants of the
Loewner differential equation are also obtained: Multiple slits in the chordal
Loewner differential equation and the radial Loewner differential equation. The
method also works for other versions of the Loewner differential equation. The
proof of our formula uses a generalization of Schwarz-Christoffel mapping to
domains bounded by trajectory arcs of rotations of a given quadratic
differential that is of interest in its own right.
  A geometric approach to quantum mechanics with unitary evolution and
non-unitary collapse processes is developed. In this approach the Schrodinger
evolution of a quantum system is a geodesic motion on the space of states of
the system furnished with an appropriate Riemannian metric. The measuring
device is modeled by a perturbation of the metric. The process of measurement
is identified with a geodesic motion of state of the system in the perturbed
metric. Under the assumption of random fluctuations of the perturbed metric,
the Born rule for probabilities of collapse is derived. The approach is applied
to a two-level quantum system to obtain a simple geometric interpretation of
quantum commutators, the uncertainty principle and Planck's constant. In light
of this, a lucid analysis of the double-slit experiment with collapse and an
experiment on a pair of entangled particles is presented.
  Dirac delta function (delta-distribution) approach can be used as efficient
method to derive identities for number series and their reciprocals. Applying
this method, a simple proof for identity relating prime counting function
(pi-function) and logarithmic integral (Li-function) can be obtained.
  For an algebraically closed field K with ch K \not = 2, we determine the Chow
ring of the moduli space of holomorphic bundles on a projective plane with the
structure group SO(n,K) and half the first Pontryagin index being equal to 1,
each of which is trivial on a fixed line and has a fixed holomorphic
trivialization there.
  This set of notes provides some additional explanatory material on the
analytic proof of the finite generation of the canonical ring for a compact
complex algebraic manifold of general type.
  We give a brief historical overview of the Tait conjectures, made 120 years
ago in the course of his pioneering work in tabulating the simplest knots, and
solved a century later using the Jones polynomial. We announce the solution,
again based on a substantial study of the Jones polynomial, of one (possibly
his last remaining?) problem of Tait, with the construction of amphicheiral
knots of almost all odd crossing numbers. An application to the non-triviality
problem for the Jones polynomial is also outlined.
  We compute the complete Fadell-Husseini index of the 8 element dihedral group
D_8 acting on S^d \times S^d, both for F_2 and for integer coefficients. This
establishes the complete goup cohomology lower bounds for the two hyperplane
case of Gr"unbaum's 1960 mass partition problem: For which d and j can any j
arbitrary measures be cut into four equal parts each by two suitably-chosen
hyperplanes in R^d? In both cases, we find that the ideal bounds are not
stronger than previously established bounds based on one of the maximal abelian
subgroups of D_8.
  We replace the ice Ansatz on matrix solutions of the Yang-Baxter equation by
a weaker condition which we call "rime". Rime solutions include the standard
Drinfeld-Jimbo R-matrix. Solutions of the Yang--Baxter equation within the rime
Ansatz which are maximally different from the standard one we call "strict
rime". A strict rime non-unitary solution is parameterized by a projective
vector. We show that this solution transforms to the Cremmer-Gervais R-matrix
by a change of basis with a matrix containing symmetric functions in the
components of the parameterizing vector. A strict unitary solution (the rime
Ansatz is well adapted for taking a unitary limit) is shown to be equivalent to
a quantization of a classical "boundary" r-matrix of Gerstenhaber and
Giaquinto. We analyze the structure of the elementary rime blocks and find, as
a by-product, that all non-standard R-matrices of GL(1|1)-type can be uniformly
described in a rime form.
  We discuss then connections of the classical rime solutions with the Bezout
operators. The Bezout operators satisfy the (non-)homogeneous associative
classical Yang--Baxter equation which is related to the Rota-Baxter operators.
  We classify the rime Poisson brackets: they form a 3-dimensional pencil. A
normal form of each individual member of the pencil depends on the discriminant
of a certain quadratic polynomial. We also classify orderable quadratic rime
associative algebras.
  For the standard Drinfeld-Jimbo solution, there is a choice of the
multiparameters, for which it can be non-trivially rimed. However, not every
Belavin-Drinfeld triple admits a choice of the multiparameters for which it can
be rimed. We give a minimal example.
  Let $X$ be a quadratic vector field with a center whose generic orbits are
algebraic curves of genus one. To each $X$ we associate an elliptic surface (a
smooth complex compact surface which is a genus one fibration). We give the
list of all such vector fields and determine the corresponding elliptic
surfaces.
  We compute in a direct (not algorithmic) way the zeta function of all
supersingular curves of genus 2 over a finite field k, with many geometric
automorphisms. We display these computations in an appendix where we select a
family of representatives of all these curves up to geometric isomorphism and
we exhibit equations and the zeta function of all their twists. As an
application we obtain a direct computation of the cryptographic exponent of the
Jacobians of these curves.
  The Allen-Cahn action functional is related to the probability of rare events
in the stochastically perturbed Allen-Cahn equation. Formal calculations
suggest a reduced action functional in the sharp interface limit. We prove in
two and three space dimensions the corresponding lower bound. One difficulty is
that diffuse interfaces may collapse in the limit. We therefore consider the
limit of diffuse surface area measures and introduce a generalized velocity and
generalized reduced action functional in a class of evolving measures. As a
corollary we obtain the Gamma convergence of the action functional in a class
of regularly evolving hypersurfaces.
  We prove that a Banach space X is not super-reflexive if and only if the
hyperbolic infinite tree embeds metrically into X. We improve one implication
of J.Bourgain's result who gave a metrical characterization of
super-reflexivity in Banach spaces in terms of uniforms embeddings of the
finite trees. A characterization of the linear type for Banach spaces is given
using the embedding of the infinite tree equipped with a suitable metric.
  The twist two contribution in the operator product expansion of phi_1(x_1)
phi_2(x_2) for a pair of globally conformal invariant, scalar fields of equal
scaling dimension d in four space-time dimensions is a field V_1(x_1,x_2) which
is harmonic in both variables. It is demonstrated that the Huygens bilocality
of V_1 can be equivalently characterized by a "single-pole property" concerning
the pole structure of the (rational) correlation functions involving the
product phi_1(x_1) phi_2(x_2). This property is established for the dimension
d=2 of phi_1, phi_2. As an application we prove that any system of GCI scalar
fields of conformal dimension 2 (in four space-time dimensions) can be
presented as a (possibly infinite) superposition of products of free massless
fields.
  We present several results associated to a holomorphic-interpolation problem
for the spectral unit ball \Omega_n, n\geq 2. We begin by showing that a known
necessary condition for the existence of a
$\mathcal{O}(D;\Omega_n)$-interpolant (D here being the unit disc in the
complex plane), given that the matricial data are non-derogatory, is not
sufficient. We provide next a new necessary condition for the solvability of
the two-point interpolation problem -- one which is not restricted only to
non-derogatory data, and which incorporates the Jordan structure of the
prescribed data. We then use some of the ideas used in deducing the latter
result to prove a Schwarz-type lemma for holomorphic self-maps of \Omega_n,
n\geq 2.
  This work is concerned with some properties of the Young-Fibonacci insertion
algorithm and its relation with Fomin's growth diagrams. It also investigates a
relation between the combinatorics of Young-Fibonacci tableaux and the study of
Okada's algebra associated to the Young-Fibonacci lattice. The original
algorithm was introduced by Roby and we redefine it in such a way that both the
insertion and recording tableaux of any permutation are \emph{conveniently}
interpreted as chains in the Young-Fibonacci lattice. A property of
Killpatrick's evacuation is given a simpler proof, but this evacuation is no
longer needed in making Roby's and Fomin's constructions coincide. We provide
the set of Young-Fibonacci tableaux of size $n$ with a structure of graded
poset, induced by the weak order on permutations of the symmetric group, and
realized by transitive closure of elementary transformations on tableaux. We
show that this poset gives a combinatorial interpretation of the coefficients
in the transition matrix from the analogue of complete symmetric functions to
analogue of the Schur functions in Okada's algebra. We end with a quite similar
observation for four posets on Young-tableaux studied by Taskin.
  We describe a new universality class for unitary invariant random matrix
ensembles. It arises in the double scaling limit of ensembles of random $n
\times n$ Hermitian matrices $Z_{n,N}^{-1} |\det M|^{2\alpha} e^{-N \Tr V(M)}
dM$ with $\alpha > -1/2$, where the factor $|\det M|^{2\alpha}$ induces
critical eigenvalue behavior near the origin. Under the assumption that the
limiting mean eigenvalue density associated with $V$ is regular, and that the
origin is a right endpoint of its support, we compute the limiting eigenvalue
correlation kernel in the double scaling limit as $n, N \to \infty$ such that
$n^{2/3}(n/N-1) = O(1)$. We use the Deift-Zhou steepest descent method for the
Riemann-Hilbert problem for polynomials on the line orthogonal with respect to
the weight $|x|^{2\alpha} e^{-NV(x)}$. Our main attention is on the
construction of a local parametrix near the origin by means of the
$\psi$-functions associated with a distinguished solution of the Painleve XXXIV
equation. This solution is related to a particular solution of the Painleve II
equation, which however is different from the usual Hastings-McLeod solution.
  We introduce a new method for estimating the growth of various quantities
arising in dynamical systems. We apply our method to polygonal billiards on
surfaces of constant curvature. For instance, we obtain power bounds of degree
two plus epsilon in length for the number of billiard orbits between almost all
pairs of points in a planar polygon.
  A new framework for asset price dynamics is introduced in which the concept
of noisy information about future cash flows is used to derive the price
processes. In this framework an asset is defined by its cash-flow structure.
Each cash flow is modelled by a random variable that can be expressed as a
function of a collection of independent random variables called market factors.
With each such "X-factor" we associate a market information process, the values
of which are accessible to market agents. Each information process is a sum of
two terms; one contains true information about the value of the market factor;
the other represents "noise". The noise term is modelled by an independent
Brownian bridge. The market filtration is assumed to be that generated by the
aggregate of the independent information processes. The price of an asset is
given by the expectation of the discounted cash flows in the risk-neutral
measure, conditional on the information provided by the market filtration. When
the cash flows are the dividend payments associated with equities, an explicit
model is obtained for the share-price, and the prices of options on
dividend-paying assets are derived. Remarkably, the resulting formula for the
price of a European call option is of the Black-Scholes-Merton type. The
information-based framework also generates a natural explanation for the origin
of stochastic volatility.
  Let $X$ be a compact complex manifold, consider a small deformation $\phi:
\mathcal{X} \to B$ of $X$, the dimension of the Dolbeault cohomology groups
$H^q(X_t,\Omega_{X_t}^p)$ may vary under this defromation. This paper will
study such phenomenons by studying the obstructions to deform a class in
$H^q(X,\Omega_X^p)$ with the parameter $t$ and get the formula for the
obstructions.
  The paper analyzes a two-grid and a multigrid method for matrices belonging
to the DCT-III algebra and generated by a polynomial symbol. The aim is to
prove that the convergence rate of the considered multigrid method (V-cycle) is
constant independent of the size of the given matrix. Numerical examples from
differential and integral equations are considered to illustrate the claimed
convergence properties.
  We propose a definition for analytic torsion of the Rumin complex on contact
manifolds. This is given by the derivative at zero of a well-chosen combination
of zeta functions of a fourth-order modified Rumin Laplacian. The regular value
at zero (before differentiation) of this well-chosen combination of zeta
functions is shown to be a contact invariant. The variation of our analytic
torsion is given as the integral of local terms, together with a global term
coming from the null-space of the Laplacian.
  The $\pi$-exterior derivative ${\o}d$, which is the Finslerian generalization
of the (usual) exterior derivative $d$ of Riemannian geometry, is defined. The
notion of a ${\o}d$-closed vector field is introduced and investigated. Various
characterizations of ${\o}d$-closed vector fields are established. Some results
concerning ${\o}d$-closed vector fields in relation to certain special Finsler
spaces are obtained.
  Let $(\clb,\lambda_t,\psi)$ be a $C^*$-dynamical system where $(\lambda_t: t
\in \IT_+)$ be a semigroup of injective endomorphism and $\psi$ be an
$(\lambda_t)$ invariant state on the $C^*$ subalgebra $\clb$ and $\IT_+$ is
either non-negative integers or real numbers. The central aim of this
exposition is to find a useful criteria for the inductive limit state $\clb
\raro^{\lambda_t} \clb$ canonically associated with $\psi$ to be pure. We
achieve this by exploring the minimal weak forward and backward Markov
processes associated with the Markov semigroup on the corner von-Neumann
algebra of the support projection of the state $\psi$ to prove that
Kolmogorov's property [Mo2] of the Markov semigroup is a sufficient condition
for the inductive state to be pure. As an application of this criteria we find
a sufficient condition for a translation invariant factor state on a one
dimensional quantum spin chain to be pure. This criteria in a sense complements
criteria obtained in [BJKW,Mo2] as we could go beyond lattice symmetric states.
  In this paper we consider a semigroup of completely positive maps
$\tau=(\tau_t,t \ge 0)$ with a faithful normal invariant state $\phi$ on a
type-$II_1$ factor $\cla_0$ and propose an index theory. We :achieve this via a
more general Kolmogorov's type of construction for stationary Markov processes
which naturally associate a nested isomorphic von-Neumann algebras. In
particular this construction generalizes well known Jones construction
associated with a sub-factor of type-II$_1$ factor.
  In this paper, we deal with a generalization of the geometry of
parallelizable manifolds, or the absolute parallelism (AP-) geometry, in the
context of generalized Lagrange spaces. All geometric objects defined in this
geometry are not only functions of the positional argument $x$, but also depend
on the directional argument $y$. In other words, instead of dealing with
geometric objects defined on the manifold $M$, as in the case of classical
AP-geometry, we are dealing with geometric objects in the pullback bundle
$\pi^{-1}(TM)$ (the pullback of the tangent bundle $TM$ by $ \pi: T
M\longrightarrow M$). Many new geometric objects, which have no counterpart in
the classical AP-geometry, emerge in this more general context. We refer to
such a geometry as generalized AP-geometry (GAP-geometry). In analogy to
AP-geometry, we define a $d$-connection in $\pi^{-1}(TM)$ having remarkable
properties, which we call the canonical $d$-connection, in terms of the unique
torsion-free Riemannian $d$-connection. In addition to these two
$d$-connections, two more $d$-connections are defined, the dual and the
symmetric $d$-connections. Our space, therefore, admits twelve curvature
tensors (corresponding to the four defined $d$-connections), three of which
vanish identically. Simple formulae for the nine non-vanishing curvatures
tensors are obtained, in terms of the torsion tensors of the canonical
$d$-connection. The different $W$-tensors admitted by the space are also
calculated. All contractions of the $h$- and $v$-curvature tensors and the
$W$-tensors are derived. Second rank symmetric and skew-symmetric tensors,
which prove useful in physical applications, are singled out.
  Let $\mathfrak a$ denote an ideal of a local ring $(R, \mathfrak m).$ Let $M$
be a finitely generated $R$-module. There is a systematic study of the formal
cohomology modules $\varprojlim \HH^i(M/\mathfrak a^nM), i \in \mathbb Z.$ We
analyze their $R$-module structure, the upper and lower vanishing and
non-vanishing in terms of intrinsic data of $M,$ and its functorial behavior.
These cohomology modules occur in relation to the formal completion of the
punctured spectrum $\Spec R \setminus V(\mathfrak m).$ As a new cohomological
data there is a description on the formal grade $\fgrade(\mathfrak a, M)$
defined as the minimal non-vanishing of the formal cohomology modules. There
are various exact sequences concerning the formal cohomology modules. Among
them a Mayer-Vietoris sequence for two ideals. It applies to new connectedness
results. There are also relations to local cohomological dimensions.
  Let $(R, \mathfrak m)$ denote an $n$-dimensional Gorenstein ring. For an
ideal $I \subset R$ of height $c$ we are interested in the endomorphism ring $B
= \Hom_R(H^c_I(R), H^c_I(R)).$ It turns out that $B$ is a commutative ring. In
the case of $(R,\mathfrak m)$ a regular local ring containing a field $B$ is a
Cohen-Macaulay ring. Its properties are related to the highest Lyubeznik number
$l = \dim_k \Ext_R^d(k,H^c_I(R)).$ In particular $R \simeq B$ if and only if $l
= 1.$ Moreover, we show that the natural homomorphism $\Ext_R^d(k, H^c_I(R))
\to k$ is non-zero.
  Virasoro constraints for orbifold Gromov-Witten theory are described. These
constraints are applied to the degree zreo, genus zero orbifold Gromov-Witten
potentials of the weighted projective stacks $\mathbb{P}(1,N)$,
$\mathbb{P}(1,1,N)$ and $\mathbb{P}(1,1,1,N)$ to obtain formulas of descendant
cyclic Hurwitz-Hodge integrals.
  Many important applications are available for nonlinear reaction-diffusion
equation especially in the area of biology and engineering. Therefore a
mathematical model for Lie symmetry reduction of system of nonlinear
reaction-diffusion equation with respect to one-dimensional Algebra is carried
out in this work. Some classes of analytical and numerical solutions are
obtained and expressed using suitable graphs.
  This paper studies the performance of partial-Rake (PRake) receivers in
impulse-radio ultrawideband wireless networks when an energy-efficient power
control scheme is adopted. Due to the large bandwidth of the system, the
multipath channel is assumed to be frequency-selective. By using noncooperative
game-theoretic models and large system analysis, explicit expressions are
derived in terms of network parameters to measure the effects of self- and
multiple-access interference at a receiving access point. Performance of the
PRake is compared in terms of achieved utilities and loss to that of the
all-Rake receiver.
  We derive an It\^o's-type formula for the one dimensional stochastic heat
equation driven by a space-time white noise. The proof is based on elementary
properties of the $\mathcal{S}$-transform and on the explicit representation of
the solution process. We also discuss the relationship with other versions of
this It\^o's-type formula existing in literature.
  This note is sketching a simple and natural mathematical construction for
explaining the probabilistic nature of quantum mechanics. It employs
nonstandard analysis and is based on Feynman's interpretation of the Heisenberg
uncertainty principle, i.e., of the quantum fluctuations, which was brought to
the forefront in some fractal approaches. It results, as in Nelson's stochastic
mechanics, in stochastic differential equations which are deduced from
infinitesimal random walks. An extended english abstract gives most of the
details.
  When n is odd, consider the finite general linear and unitary groups of rank
n, extended by the inverse transpose automorphism. There are elements in the
extended groups which square to a regular unipotent element, and we evaluate
the values of irreducible characters of the extended groups on these elements.
Several intermediate results on real conjugacy classes and real-valued
characters of these groups are obtained along the way.
  We improve a result of Bennett concerning certain sequences involving sums of
powers of positive integers.
  The character ring \CGL of covariant irreducible tensor representations of
the general linear group admits a Hopf algebra structure isomorphic to the Hopf
algebra \Sym$ of symmetric functions. Here we study the character rings \CO and
\CSp of the orthogonal and symplectic subgroups of the general linear group
within the same framework of symmetric functions. We show that \CO and \CSp
also admit natural Hopf algebra structures that are isomorphic to that of \CGL,
and hence to \Sym. The isomorphisms are determined explicitly, along with the
specification of standard bases for \CO and \CSp analogous to those used for
\Sym. A major structural change arising from the adoption of these bases is the
introduction of new orthogonal and symplectic Schur-Hall scalar products.
Significantly, the adjoint with respect to multiplication no longer coincides,
as it does in the \CGL case, with a Foulkes derivative or skew operation. The
adjoint and Foulkes derivative now require separate definitions, and their
properties are explored here in the orthogonal and symplectic cases. Moreover,
the Hopf algebras \CO and \CSp are not self-dual. The dual Hopf algebras \CO^*
and \CSp^* are identified. Finally, the Hopf algebra of the universal rational
character ring \CGLrat of mixed irreducible tensor representations of the
general linear group is introduced and its structure maps identified.
  This work is dedicated to a new completely algebraic approach to Arakelov
geometry, which doesn't require the variety under consideration to be
generically smooth or projective. In order to construct such an approach we
develop a theory of generalized rings and schemes, which include classical
rings and schemes together with "exotic" objects such as F_1 ("field with one
element"), Z_\infty ("real integers"), T (tropical numbers) etc., thus
providing a systematic way of studying such objects.
  This theory of generalized rings and schemes is developed up to construction
of algebraic K-theory, intersection theory and Chern classes. Then existence of
Arakelov models of algebraic varieties over Q is shown, and our general results
are applied to such models.
  This paper is devoted to hyperbolic systems of balance laws with non local
source terms. The existence, uniqueness and Lipschitz dependence proved here
comprise previous results in the literature and can be applied to physical
models, such as Euler system for a radiating gas and Rosenau regularization of
the Chapman-Enskog expansion.
  Let X be an orbifold with crepant resolution Y. The Crepant Resolution
Conjectures of Ruan and Bryan-Graber assert, roughly speaking, that the quantum
cohomology of X becomes isomorphic to the quantum cohomology of Y after
analytic continuation in certain parameters followed by the specialization of
some of these parameters to roots of unity. We prove these conjectures in the
case where X is a surface singularity of type A. The key ingredient is mirror
symmetry for toric orbifolds.
  We derive a complete set of invariants for a formal Bishop surface near a
point of complex tangent with a vanishing Bishop invariant under the action of
formal transformations. We prove that the modular space of Bishop surfaces with
a vanishing Bishop invariant and with a fixed Moser invariant $s<\infty$ is of
infinite dimension. We also prove that the equivalence class of the germ of a
generic real analytic Bishop surface near a complex tangent with a vanishing
Bishop invariant can not be determined by a finite part of the Taylor expansion
of its defining equation. This answers, in the negative, a problem raised by J.
Moser in 1985 after his joint work with Webster in 1983 and his own work in
1985.
  We show that a weighted homogeneous complex surface singularity is metrically
conical (i.e., bi-Lipschitz equivalent to a metric cone) only if its two lowest
weights are equal. We also give an example of a pair of weighted homogeneous
complex surface singularities that are topologically equivalent but not
bi-Lipschitz equivalent.
  Kontsevitch's work on Airy matrix integrals has led to explicit results for
the intersection numbers of the moduli space of curves. In a subsequent work
Okounkov rederived these results from the edge behavior of a Gaussian matrix
integral. In our work we consider the correlation functions of vertices in a
Gaussian random matrix theory, with an external matrix source, in a scaling
limit in which the powers of the matrices and their sizes go to infinity
simultaneously in a specified scale. We show that the replica method applied to
characteristic polynomials of the random matrices, together with a duality
exchanging N and the number of points, allows one to recover Kontsevich's
results on the intersection numbers, through a simple saddle-point analysis.
  We provide the explicit combinatorial structure of the Kirillov-Reshetikhin
crystals B^{r,s} of type D_n(1), B_n(1), and A_{2n-1}(2). This is achieved by
constructing the crystal analogue sigma of the automorphism of the D_n(1)
(resp. B_n(1) or A_{2n-1}(2)) Dynkin diagram that interchanges the 0 and 1
node. The involution sigma is defined in terms of new plus-minus diagrams that
govern the D_n to D_{n-1} (resp. B_n to B_{n-1}, or C_n to C_{n-1}) branching.
It is also shown that the crystal B^{r,s} is perfect. These crystals have been
implemented in MuPAD-Combinat; the implementation is discussed in terms of many
examples.
  The past decade has seen a flurry of research into pattern avoiding
permutations but little of it is concerned with their exhaustive generation.
Many applications call for exhaustive generation of permutations subject to
various constraints or imposing a particular generating order. In this paper we
present generating algorithms and combinatorial Gray codes for several families
of pattern avoiding permutations. Among the families under consideration are
those counted by Catalan, Schr\"oder, Pell, even index Fibonacci numbers and
the central binomial coefficients. Consequently, this provides Gray codes for
$\s_n(\tau)$ for all $\tau\in \s_3$ and the obtained Gray codes have distances
4 and 5.
  We give an operator theoretic approach to the constructions of
multiresolutions as they are used in a number of basis constructions with
wavelets, and in Hilbert spaces on fractals. Our approach starts with the
following version of the classical Baumslag-Solitar relations $u t = t^2 u$
where $t$ is a unitary operator in a Hilbert space $\mathcal H$ and $u$ is an
isometry in $\mathcal H$. There are isometric dilations of this system into a
bigger Hilbert space, relevant for wavelets. For a variety of carefully
selected dilations, the ``bigger'' Hilbert space may be $L^2(\br)$, and the
dilated operators may be the unitary operators which define a dyadic wavelet
multiresolutions of $L^2(\br)$ with the subspace $\mathcal H$ serving as the
corresponding resolution subspace. That is, the initialized resolution which is
generated by the wavelet scaling function(s). In the dilated Hilbert space, the
Baumslag-Solitar relations then take the more familiar form $u t u^{-1} = t^2$.
  We offer an operator theoretic framework including the standard construction;
and we show how the representations of certain discrete semidirect group
products serve to classify the possibilities. For this we analyze and compare
several types of unitary representations of these semidirect products: the
induced representations in Mackey's theory, the wavelet representations on
$L^2(\br)$, the irreducible representation on the dual, the finite dimensional
representations, and the the regular representation.
  These are lecture notes from my talks at the "Current Developments in
Mathematics" conference (Harvard, 2006). They cover a variety of topics
involving symplectic cohomology. In particular, a discussion of (algorithmic)
classification issues in symplectic and contact topology is included.
  The geometric constructions are elaborated on (semi) Riemannian manifolds and
vector bundles provided with nonintegrable distributions defining nonlinear
connection structures induced canonically by metric tensors. Such spaces are
called nonholonomic manifolds and described by two equivalent linear
connections also induced in unique forms by a metric tensor (the Levi Civita
and the canonical distinguished connection, d-connection). The lifts of
geometric objects on tangent bundles are performed for certain classes of
d-connections and frame transforms when the Riemann tensor is parametrized by
constant matrix coefficients. For such configurations, the flows of
non-stretching curves and corresponding bi-Hamilton and solitonic hierarchies
encode information about Ricci flow evolution, Einstein spaces and exact
solutions in gravity and geometric mechanics. The applied methods were
elaborated formally in Finsler geometry and allows us to develop the formalism
for generalized Riemann-Finsler and Lagrange spaces. Nevertheless, all
geometric constructions can be equivalently re-defined for the Levi Civita
connections and holonomic frames on (semi) Riemannian manifolds.
  We consider quantum field theory in four-dimensional Minkowski spacetime,
with the position coordinates represented by twistors instead of the usual
world-vectors. Upon imposing canonical commutation relations between twistors
and dual twistors, quantum theory of fields described by non-holomorphic
functions of twistor variables becomes manifestly non-commutative, with Lorentz
symmetry broken by a time-like vector. We discuss the free field propagation
and its impact on the short- and long-distance behavior of physical amplitudes
in perturbation theory. In the ultraviolet limit, quantum field theories in
twistor space are generically less divergent than their commutative
counterparts. Furthermore, there is no infrared--ultraviolet mixing problem.
  Many features of dimensional reduction schemes are determined by the breaking
of higher dimensional general covariance associated with the selection of a
particular subset of coordinates. By investigating residual covariance we
introduce lower dimensional tensors --generalizing to one side Kaluza-Klein
gauge fields and to the other side extrinsic curvature and torsion of embedded
spaces-- fully characterizing the geometry of dimensional reduction. We obtain
general formulas for the reduction of the main tensors and operators of
Riemannian geometry. In particular, we provide what is probably the maximal
possible generalization of Gauss, Codazzi and Ricci equations and various other
standard formulas in Kaluza-Klein and embedded spacetimes theories. After
general covariance breaking, part of the residual covariance is perceived by
effective lower dimensional observers as an infinite dimensional gauge group.
This reduces to finite dimensions in Kaluza-Klein and other few remarkable
backgrounds, all characterized by the vanishing of appropriate lower
dimensional tensors.
  In this paper we consider three-manifolds with weakly umbilic boundary (the
Second Fundamental form of the boundary is a constant multiple of the metric).
We show that if the initial manifold has positive Ricci curvature and the
boundary is convex (nonnegative Second Fundamental form), its metric can be
deformed via the Ricci flow to a metric of constant curvature and totally
geodesic boundary.
  We prove that the energy equality holds for weak solutions of the 3D
Navier-Stokes equations in the functional class $L^3([0,T);V^{5/6})$, where
$V^{5/6}$ is the domain of the fractional power of the Stokes operator
$A^{5/12}$.
  Exponential dichotomy of a strongly continuous cocycle $\bFi$ is proved to be
equivalent to existence of a Ma\~{n}e sequence either for $\bFi$ or for its
adjoint. As a consequence we extend some of the classical results to general
Banach bundles. The dynamical spectrum of a product of two cocycles, one of
which is scalar, is investigated and applied to describe the essential spectrum
of the Euler equation in an arbitrary spacial dimension.
  Finite element method is one of powerful numerical methods to solve PDE.
Usually, if a finite element solution to a Poisson equation based on a
triangulation of the underlying domain is not accurate enough, one will discard
the solution and then refine the triangulation uniformly and compute a new
finite element solution over the refined triangulation. It is wasteful to
discard the original finite element solution. We propose a prewavelet method to
save the original solution by adding a prewavelet subsolution to obtain the
refined level finite element solution. To increase the accuracy of numerical
solution to Poisson equations, we can keep adding prewavelet subsolutions.
  Our prewavelets are orthogonal in the $H^1$ norm and they are compactly
supported except for one globally supported basis function in a rectangular
domain. We have implemented these prewavelet basis functions in MATLAB and used
them for numerical solution of Poisson equation with Dirichlet boundary
conditions. Numerical simulation demonstrates that our prewavelet solution is
much more efficient than the standard finite element method.
  In this paper we classify compact minimal surfaces in $S^5$ with non-negative
Gaussian curvature using the notion of a contact angle.
  The paper considers pseudo-differential boundary value control systems. The
underlying operators form an algebra D with the help of which we are able to
formulate typical boundary value control problems. The symbolic calculus gives
tools to form e.g. compositions, formal adjoints, generalized right or left
inverses and compatibility conditions. By a parametrizability we mean that for
a given control system Au=0 one finds an operator S such that Au=0 if and only
if u=Sf. The computation rules of D (or its appropriate subalgebra D')
guarantee that in many applications S can be refinely analyzed or even
explicitly calculated. We outline some methods of homological algebra for the
study of parametrization S. Especially the projectivity of a certain factor
module (defined by the system equations) implies the parametrizability. We give
some examples to illustrate our computational methods.
  We investigate the notion of associated graded coalgebra (algebra) of a
bialgebra with respect to a subbialgebra (quotient bialgebra) and characterize
those which are bialgebras of type one in the framework of abelian braided
monoidal categories.
  We extend Hendriks' classification theorem and Turaev's realisation and
splitting theorems for Poincare duality complexes in dimension three to the
relative case of Poincare duality pairs. The results for Poincare duality
complexes are recovered by restricting the results to the case of Poincare
duality pairs with empty boundary. Up to oriented homotopy equivalence,
three-dimensional Poincare duality pairs are classified by their fundamental
triple consisting of the fundamental group system, the orientation character
and the image of the fundamental class under the classifying map. Using the
derived module category we provide necessary and sufficient conditions for a
given triple to be realised by a three-dimensional Poincare duality pair. The
results on classification and realisation yield splitting or decomposition
theorems for three-dimensional Poincare duality pairs, that is, conditions
under which a given three-dimensional Poincare duality pair decomposes as
interior or boundary connected sum of two three-dimensional Poincare duality
pairs.
  We study various topological invariants on a torsional geometry in the
presence of a totally anti-symmetric torsion H under the closed condition dH =
0, which appears in string theory compactification scenarios. By using the
identification between the Clifford algebra on the geometry and the canonical
quantization condition of fermions in quantum mechanics, we construct N=1
quantum mechanical sigma model in the Hamiltonian formalism. We extend this
model to N=2 system, equipped with the totally anti-symmetric tensor associated
with the torsion on the target space geometry. Next we construct transition
elements in the Lagrangian path integral formalism and apply them to the
analyses of the Witten indices in supersymmetric systems. We explicitly show
the formulation of the Dirac index on the torsional manifold which has already
been studied. We also formulate the Euler characteristic and the Hirzebruch
signature on the torsional manifold.
  Let $X$ be a compact complex manifold, consider a small deformation $\phi:
\mathcal{X} \to B$ of $X$, the dimensions of the cohomology groups of tangent
sheaf $H^q(X_t,\mathcal{T}_{X_t})$ may vary under this deformation. This paper
will study such phenomenons by studying the obstructions to deform a class in
$H^q(X,\mathcal{T}_X)$ with the parameter $t$ and get the formula for the
obstructions.
  It is well-known that a compact Riemannian spin manifold can be reconstructed
from its canonical spectral triple which consists of the algebra of smooth
functions, the Hilbert space of square integrable spinors and the Dirac
operator. It seems to be a folklore fact that the metric can be reconstructed
up to conformal equivalence if one replaces the Dirac operator D by sign(D). We
give a precise formulation and proof of this fact.
  Coupled-mode systems are used in physical literature to simplify the
nonlinear Maxwell and Gross-Pitaevskii equations with a small periodic
potential and to approximate localized solutions called gap solitons by
analytical expressions involving hyperbolic functions. We justify the use of
the one-dimensional stationary coupled-mode system for a relevant elliptic
problem by employing the method of Lyapunov--Schmidt reductions in Fourier
space. In particular, existence of periodic/anti-periodic and decaying
solutions is proved and the error terms are controlled in suitable norms. The
use of multi-dimensional stationary coupled-mode systems is justified for
analysis of bifurcations of periodic/anti-periodic solutions in a small
multi-dimensional periodic potential.
  We address existence of moving gap solitons (traveling localized solutions)
in the Gross-Pitaevskii equation with a small periodic potential. Moving gap
solitons are approximated by the explicit localized solutions of the
coupled-mode system. We show however that exponentially decaying traveling
solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation do not generally exist in the
presence of a periodic potential due to bounded oscillatory tails ahead and
behind the moving solitary waves. The oscillatory tails are not accounted in
the coupled-mode formalism and are estimated by using techniques of spatial
dynamics and local center-stable manifold reductions. Existence of bounded
traveling solutions of the Gross--Pitaevskii equation with a single bump
surrounded by oscillatory tails on a finite large interval of the spatial scale
is proven by using these technique. We also show generality of oscillatory
tails in other nonlinear equations with a periodic potential.
  Let $H$ be a connected reductive subgroup of a complex connected reductive
group $G$. Fix maximal tori and Borel subgroups of $H$ and $G$. Consider the
pairs $(V,V')$ of irreducible representations of $H$ and $G$ such that $V$ is a
submodule of $V'$. We are interested in the cone $LR(G,H)$ generated by the
pairs of dominant weights of such a pair of representations. Our main result
gives a minimal set of inequalities describing $LR(G,H)$ as a part of the
dominant chamber. In way, we obtain results about the faces of the
Dolgachev-Hu's $G$-ample cone and variations of this cone.
  We give here the proof that pair creation in a time dependent potentials is
possible. It happens with probability one if the potential changes
adiabatically in time and becomes overcritical, that is when an eigenvalue
enters the upper spectral continuum. The potential may be assumed to be zero at
large negative and positive times. The rigorous treatment of this effect has
been lacking since the pioneering work of Beck, Steinwedel and Suessmann in
1963 and Gershtein and Zeldovich in 1970.
  In this short note we prove that the Farrell-Jones Fibered Isomorphism
Conjecture in L-theory, after inverting 2, is true for a group whose some
derived subgroup is free.
  The proof of proposition 3.6 is not correct
  Let $r>2$ and $\sigma\in(0,r-1)$ be integers. We require $t<2s$, where
$t=2^{\sigma+1}-1$ and $s=2^{r-\sigma-1}$. Generalizing a known
$\{K_4,T_{6,3}\}$-ultrahomogenous graph $G_3^1$, we find that a finite,
connected, undirected, arc-transitive graph $G_r^\sigma$ exists each of whose
edges is shared by just two maximal subgraphs, namely a clique $X_0=K_{2s}$ and
a $t$-partite regular-Tur\'an graph $X_1=T_{st,t}$ on $s$ vertices per part.
Each copy $Y$ of $X_i$ ($i=0,1$) in $G_r^\sigma$ shares each edge with just one
copy of $X_{1-i}$ and all such copies of $X_{1-i}$ are pairwise distinct.
Moreover, $G_r^\sigma$ is an edge-disjoint union of copies of $X_i$, for
$i=0,1$. We prove that $G_r^\sigma$ is $\{K_{2s},T_{st,t}\}$-homogeneous if
$t<2s$, and just $\{T_{st,t}\}$-homogeneous otherwise, meaning that there is an
automorphism of $G_r^\sigma$ between any two such copies of $X_i$ relating two
preselected arcs.
  We obtain explicit expressions for differential operators defining the action
of the Virasoro algebra on the space of univalent functions. We also obtain an
explicit Taylor decomposition for Schwarzian derivative and a formula for the
Grunsky coefficients.
  The aim of this survey is to give an overview on the geometry of Einstein
maximal globally hyperbolic 2+1 spacetimes of arbitrary curvature, conatining a
complete Cauchy surface of finite type. In particular a specialization to the
finite type case of the canonicla Wick rotation-rescaling theory, previously
developed by the authors, is provided. This includes, for arbitrary curvatures,
parameterizations in terms of suitable measured geodesic laminations on open
hyperbolic surfaces of finite type. The same geometric objects also
parameterize complex projective structures on the surfaces. The coincidence of
such parameter space is explained by means of geometric correlations between
spacetimes of different curvatures and projective surfaces realized via
canonical WR-rescaling along the cosmological times. We also specialize on AdS
case mostly referring to recent results achieved by other authors. In
particular we describe maximal causal extensions of AdS globally hyperbolic
spacetimes and an AdS approach to the theory of earthquakes for hyperbolic
surfaces of finite type. A general earthquake theorem is proved for the so
called enhanced Teichmuller space. The case of spacetimes with conical timelike
singularities is also treated.
  We prove that free pre-Lie algebras, when considered as Lie algebras, are
free. Working in the category of S-modules, we define a natural filtration on
the space of generators. We also relate the symmetric group action on
generators with the structure of the anticyclic PreLie operad.
  It is proved that localizations of injective $R$-modules of finite Goldie
dimension are injective if $R$ is an arithmetical ring satisfying the following
condition: for every maximal ideal $P$, $R_P$ is either coherent or not
semicoherent. If, in addition, each finitely generated $R$-module has finite
Goldie dimension, then localizations of finitely injective $R$-modules are
finitely injective too. Moreover, if $R$ is a Pr\"ufer domain of finite
character, localizations of injective $R$-modules are injective.
  In this paper we examine the implications of the statistical large sample
theory for the computational complexity of Bayesian and quasi-Bayesian
estimation carried out using Metropolis random walks. Our analysis is motivated
by the Laplace-Bernstein-Von Mises central limit theorem, which states that in
large samples the posterior or quasi-posterior approaches a normal density.
Using the conditions required for the central limit theorem to hold, we
establish polynomial bounds on the computational complexity of general
Metropolis random walks methods in large samples. Our analysis covers cases
where the underlying log-likelihood or extremum criterion function is possibly
non-concave, discontinuous, and with increasing parameter dimension. However,
the central limit theorem restricts the deviations from continuity and
log-concavity of the log-likelihood or extremum criterion function in a very
specific manner.
  Under minimal assumptions required for the central limit theorem to hold
under the increasing parameter dimension, we show that the Metropolis algorithm
is theoretically efficient even for the canonical Gaussian walk which is
studied in detail. Specifically, we show that the running time of the algorithm
in large samples is bounded in probability by a polynomial in the parameter
dimension $d$, and, in particular, is of stochastic order $d^2$ in the leading
cases after the burn-in period. We then give applications to exponential
families, curved exponential families, and Z-estimation of increasing
dimension.
  A symplectic manifold $W$ with contact type boundary $M = \partial W$ induces
a linearization of the contact homology of $M$ with corresponding linearized
contact homology $HC(M)$. We establish a Gysin-type exact sequence in which the
symplectic homology $SH(W)$ of $W$ maps to $HC(M)$, which in turn maps to
$HC(M)$, by a map of degree -2, which then maps to $SH(W)$. Furthermore, we
give a description of the degree -2 map in terms of rational holomorphic curves
with constrained asymptotic markers, in the symplectization of $M$.
  We consider random boolean cellular automata on the integer lattice, i.e.,
the cells are identified with the integers from 1 to $N$. The behaviour of the
automaton is mainly determined by the support of the random variable that
selects one of the sixteen possible Boolean rules, independently for each cell.
A cell is said to stabilize if it will not change its state anymore after some
time. We classify the random boolean automata according to the positivity of
their probability of stabilization. Here is an example of a consequence of our
results: if the support contains at least 5 rules, then asymptotically as $N$
tends to infinity the probability of stabilization is positive, whereas there
exist random boolean cellular automata with 4 rules in their support for which
this probability tends to 0.
  Let $f:I \to I$ be a $C^2$ multimodal interval map satisfying polynomial
growth of the derivatives along critical orbits. We prove the existence and
uniqueness of equilibrium states for the potential $\phi_t:x\mapsto
-t\log|Df(x)|$ for $t$ close to 1, and also that the pressure function $t
\mapsto P(\phi_t)$ is analytic on an appropriate interval near $t = 1$.
  A difference set is said to have classical parameters if $ (v,k, \lambda) =
(\frac{q^d-1}{q-1}, \frac{q^{d-1}-1}{q-1}, \frac{q^{d-2}-1}{q-1}).$ The case
$d=3$ corresponds to planar difference sets. We focus here on the family of
abelian difference sets with $d=4$. The only known examples of such difference
sets correspond to the projective geometries $PG(3,q)$. We consider an
arbitrary difference set with the parameters of $PG(3,q)$ in an abelian group
and establish constraints on its structure. In particular, we discern embedded
substructures.
  Denef and Loeser defined a map from the Grothendieck ring of sets definable
in pseudo-finite fields to the Grothendieck ring of Chow motives, thus enabling
to apply any cohomological invariant to these sets. We generalize this to
perfect, pseudo algebraically closed fields with pro-cyclic Galois group. In
addition, we define some maps between different Grothendieck rings of definable
sets which provide additional information, not contained in the associated
motive. In particular we infer that the map of Denef-Loeser is not injective.
  Category theory has foundational importance because it provides conceptual
lenses to characterize what is important in mathematics. Originally the main
lenses were universal mapping properties and natural transformations. In recent
decades, the notion of adjoint functors has moved to center-stage as category
theory's primary tool to characterize what is important in mathematics. Our
focus here is to present a theory of adjoint functors. The basis for the theory
is laid by first showing that the object-to-object "heteromorphisms" between
the objects of different categories (e.g., insertion of generators as a set to
group map) can be rigorously treated within category theory. The heteromorphic
theory shows that all adjunctions arise from the birepresentations of the
heteromorphisms between the objects of different categories.
  In this paper we make a first attempt at understanding how to build an
optimal approximate normal factor analysis model. The criterion we have chosen
to evaluate the distance between different models is the I-divergence between
the corresponding normal laws. The algorithm that we propose for the
construction of the best approximation is of an the alternating minimization
kind.
  In this paper we study observation problem for linear 2-point BVP Dx=Bf
assuming that information about system input f and random noise \eta in system
state observation model y=Hx+\eta$ is incomplete (f and M\eta\eta' are some
arbitrary elements of given sets). A criterion of guaranteed (minimax)
estimation error finiteness is proposed. Representations of minimax estimations
are obtained in terms of 2-point BVP solutions. It is proved that in general
case we can only estimate a projection of system state onto some linear
manifold $F$. In particular, $F=L_2$ if $dim N(D H) = 0$. Also we propose a
procedure which decides if given linear functional belongs to $F$.
  Deformation Theory is a natural generalization of Lie Theory, from Lie groups
and their linearization, Lie algebras, to differential graded Lie algebras and
their higher order deformations, quantum groups.
  The article focuses on two basic constructions of deformation theory: the
universal solution of Maurer-Cartan Equation (MCE), which plays the role of the
exponential of Lie Theory, and its inverse, the Kuranishi functor, as the
logarithm.
  The deformation functor is the gauge reduction of MCE, corresponding to a
Hodge decomposition associated to the strong deformation retract data.
  The above comparison with Lie Theory leads to a better understanding of
Deformation Theory and its applications, e.g. the relation between quantization
and Connes-Kreimer renormalization, quantum doubles and Birkhoff decomposition.
  We compute the Picard group of the moduli stack of elliptic curves and its
canonical compactification over general base schemes.
  Let $f$ be an ordinary polynomial in $\mathbb{C}[z_1,..., z_n]$ with no
negative exponents and with no factor of the form $z_1^{\alpha_1}...
z_n^{\alpha_n}$ where $\alpha_i$ are non zero natural integer. If we assume in
addicting that $f$ is maximally sparse polynomial (that its support is equal to
the set of vertices of its Newton polytope), then a complement component of the
amoeba $\mathscr{A}_f$ in $\mathbb{R}^n$ of the algebraic hypersurface
$V_f\subset (\mathbb{C}^*)^n$ defined by $f$, has order lying in the support of
$f$, which means that $\mathscr{A}_f$ is solid. This gives an affirmative
answer to Passare and Rullg\aa rd question in [PR2-01].
  We study a two-dimensional exactly solvable non-Hermitian $PT-$non-symmetric
quantum model with real spectrum, which is not amenable to separation of
variables, by supersymmetrical methods. Here we focus attention on the property
of pseudo-Hermiticity, biorthogonal expansion and pseudo-metric operator. To
our knowledge this is the first time that pseudo-Hermiticity is realized
explicitly for a nontrivial two-dimensional case. It is shown that the
Hamiltonian of the model is not diagonalizable.
  We study the hydrodynamic limit for some conservative particle systems with
degenerate rates, namely with nearest neighbor exchange rates which vanish for
certain configurations. These models belong to the class of {\sl kinetically
constrained lattice gases} (KCLG) which have been introduced and intensively
studied in physics literature as simple models for the liquid/glass transition.
Due to the degeneracy of rates for KCLG there exists {\sl blocked
configurations} which do not evolve under the dynamics and in general the
hyperplanes of configurations with a fixed number of particles can be
decomposed into different irreducible sets. As a consequence, both the Entropy
and Relative Entropy method cannot be straightforwardly applied to prove the
hydrodynamic limit. In particular, some care should be put when proving the One
and Two block Lemmas which guarantee local convergence to equilibrium. We show
that, for initial profiles smooth enough and bounded away from zero and one,
the macroscopic density profile for our KCLG evolves under the diffusive time
scaling according to the porous medium equation. Then we prove the same result
for more general profiles for a slightly perturbed dynamics obtained by adding
jumps of the Symmetric Simple Exclusion. The role of the latter is to remove
the degeneracy of rates and at the same time they are properly slowed down in
order not to change the macroscopic behavior. The equilibrium fluctuations and
the magnitude of the spectral gap for this perturbed model are also obtained.
  We reveal an interesting convex duality relationship between two problems:
(a) minimizing the probability of lifetime ruin when the rate of consumption is
stochastic and when the individual can invest in a Black-Scholes financial
market; (b) a controller-and-stopper problem, in which the controller controls
the drift and volatility of a process in order to maximize a running reward
based on that process, and the stopper chooses the time to stop the running
reward and rewards the controller a final amount at that time. Our primary goal
is to show that the minimal probability of ruin, whose stochastic
representation does not have a classical form as does the utility maximization
problem (i.e., the objective's dependence on the initial values of the state
variables is implicit), is the unique classical solution of its
Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation, which is a non-linear boundary-value
problem. We establish our goal by exploiting the convex duality relationship
between (a) and (b).
  Let $A$ be a finite dimensional $Q-$algebra and $\Gamma subset A$ a
$Z-$order. We classify those $A$ with the property that $Z^2$ does not embed in
$\mathcal{U}(\Gamma)$. We call this last property the hyperbolic property. We
apply this in the case that $A = KS$ a semigroup algebra with $K = Q$ or $K =
Q(\sqrt{-d})$. In particular, when $KS$ is semi-simple and has no nilpotent
elements, we prove that $S$ is an inverse semigroup which is the disjoint union
of Higman groups and at most one cyclic group $C_n$ with $n \in \{5,8,12\}$.
  The Grothendieck rings of finite dimensional representations of the basic
classical Lie superalgebras are explicitly described in terms of the
corresponding generalised root systems. We show that they can be interpreted as
the subrings in the weight group rings invariant under the action of certain
groupoids called Weyl groupoids.
  We present an extremely elementary construction of the simple Lie algebras
over the complex numbers in all of their minuscule representations, using the
vertices of various polytopes. The construction itself requires no complicated
combinatorics and essentially no Lie theory other than the definition of a Lie
algebra; in fact, the Lie algebras themselves appear as by-products of the
construction.
  We prove that approximating the size of stopping and trapping sets in Tanner
graphs of linear block codes, and more restrictively, the class of low-density
parity-check (LDPC) codes, is NP-hard. The ramifications of our findings are
that methods used for estimating the height of the error-floor of moderate- and
long-length LDPC codes based on stopping and trapping set enumeration cannot
provide accurate worst-case performance predictions.
  In this work, the critical role of noisy feedback in enhancing the secrecy
capacity of the wiretap channel is established. Unlike previous works, where a
noiseless public discussion channel is used for feedback, the feed-forward and
feedback signals share the same noisy channel in the present model. Quite
interestingly, this noisy feedback model is shown to be more advantageous in
the current setting. More specifically, the discrete memoryless modulo-additive
channel with a full-duplex destination node is considered first, and it is
shown that the judicious use of feedback increases the perfect secrecy capacity
to the capacity of the source-destination channel in the absence of the
wiretapper. In the achievability scheme, the feedback signal corresponds to a
private key, known only to the destination. In the half-duplex scheme, a novel
feedback technique that always achieves a positive perfect secrecy rate (even
when the source-wiretapper channel is less noisy than the source-destination
channel) is proposed. These results hinge on the modulo-additive property of
the channel, which is exploited by the destination to perform encryption over
the channel without revealing its key to the source. Finally, this scheme is
extended to the continuous real valued modulo-$\Lambda$ channel where it is
shown that the perfect secrecy capacity with feedback is also equal to the
capacity in the absence of the wiretapper.
  We determine all irreducible representations of primary quasi-cyclotomic
fields in this paper. The methods can be applied to determine the irreducible
representations of any quasi-cyclotomic field. We also compute the Artin
L-functions for a class of quasi-cyclotomic fields.
  We present an infinite family of 3-connected non-bipartite graphs with
chromatic roots in the interval (1,2) thus resolving a conjecture of Jackson's
in the negative. In addition, we briefly consider other graph classes that are
conjectured to have no chromatic roots in (1,2).
  Let $(\cX, \rho)$ be a discrete metric space. We suppose that the group
$\sZ^n$ acts freely on $X$ and that the number of orbits of $X$ with respect to
this action is finite. Then we call $X$ a $\sZ^n$-periodic discrete metric
space. We examine the Fredholm property and essential spectra of band-dominated
operators on $l^p(X)$ where $X$ is a $\sZ^n$-periodic discrete metric space.
Our approach is based on the theory of band-dominated operators on $\sZ^n$ and
their limit operators.
  In case $X$ is the set of vertices of a combinatorial graph, the graph
structure defines a Schr\"{o}dinger operator on $l^p(X)$ in a natural way. We
illustrate our approach by determining the essential spectra of Schr\"{o}dinger
operators with slowly oscillating potential both on zig-zag and on hexagonal
graphs, the latter being related to nano-structures.
  We consider the problem of unique identification of dielectric coefficients
for gratings and sound speeds for wave guides from scattering data. We prove
that the "propagating modes" given for all frequencies uniquely determine these
coefficients. The gratings may contain conductors as well as dielectrics and
the boundaries of the conductors are also determined by the propagating modes.
  The purpose of this article is to prove that Gersten's conjecture for a
commutative regular local ring is true. As its applications, we will prove the
vanishing conjecture for certain Chow groups, generator conjecture for certain
$K$-groups and Bloch's formula for absolute case.
  In this paper we derive some new and practical results on testing and
interval estimation problems for the population eigenvalues of a Wishart matrix
based on the asymptotic theory for block-wise infinite dispersion of the
population eigenvalues. This new type of asymptotic theory has been developed
by the present authors in Takemura and Sheena (2005) and Sheena and Takemura
(2007a,b) and in these papers it was applied to point estimation problem of
population covariance matrix in a decision theoretic framework. In this paper
we apply it to some testing and interval estimation problems. We show that the
approximation based on this type of asymptotics is generally much better than
the traditional large-sample asymptotics for the problems.
  This survey is a collection of various results and formulas by different
authors on the areas (integrals) of five related processes, viz.\spacefactor
=1000 Brownian motion, bridge, excursion, meander and double meander; for the
Brownian motion and bridge, which take both positive and negative values, we
consider both the integral of the absolute value and the integral of the
positive (or negative) part. This gives us seven related positive random
variables, for which we study, in particular, formulas for moments and Laplace
transforms; we also give (in many cases) series representations and asymptotics
for density functions and distribution functions. We further study Wright's
constants arising in the asymptotic enumeration of connected graphs; these are
known to be closely connected to the moments of the Brownian excursion area.
The main purpose is to compare the results for these seven Brownian areas by
stating the results in parallel forms; thus emphasizing both the similarities
and the differences. A recurring theme is the Airy function which appears in
slightly different ways in formulas for all seven random variables. We further
want to give explicit relations between the many different similar notations
and definitions that have been used by various authors. There are also some new
results, mainly to fill in gaps left in the literature. Some short proofs are
given, but most proofs are omitted and the reader is instead referred to the
original sources.
  We consider a factorization of the non-stationary Schrodinger operator based
on the parabolic Dirac operator introduced by Cerejeiras/ Kahler/ Sommen. Based
on the fundamental solution for the parabolic Dirac operators, we shall
construct appropriated Teodorescu and Cauchy-Bitsadze operators. Afterwards we
will describe how to solve the nonlinear Schrodinger equation using Banach
fixed point theorem.
  We present an inverse scattering approach to defects in classical integrable
field theories. Integrability is proved systematically by constructing the
generating function of the infinite set of modified integrals of motion. The
contribution of the defect to all orders is explicitely identified in terms of
a defect matrix. The underlying geometric picture is that those defects
correspond to Backlund transformations localized at a given point. A
classification of defect matrices as well as the corresponding defect
conditions is performed. The method is applied to a collection of well-known
integrable models and previous results are recovered (and extended) directly as
special cases. Finally, a brief discussion of the classical $r$-matrix approach
in this context shows the relation to inhomogeneous lattice models and the need
to resort to lattice regularizations of integrable field theories with defects.
  In this paper, we propose a 3-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e III
systems in dimension four with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $A_5^{(2)}$.
We also propose its symmetric form in which the $A_5^{(2)}$-symmetries become
clearly visible.
  In this paper we propose an elementary topological approach which unifies and
extends various different results concerning fixed points and periodic points
for maps defined on sets homeomorphic to rectangles embedded in euclidean
spaces. We also investigate the associated discrete semidynamical systems in
view of detecting the presence of chaotic-like dynamics.
  In this paper, we propose a 4-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e III
systems in dimension four with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_4^{(1)}$.
We also propose its symmetric form in which the $D_4^{(1)}$-symmetries become
clearly visible.
  In this paper, we present a complete proof of the construction of graphs with
bounded valency such that the simple random walk has a return probability at
time $n$ at the origin of order $exp(-n^{\alpha}),$ for fixed $\alpha \in
[0,1[$ and with Folner function $exp(n^{\frac{2\alpha}{1-\alpha}})$. We begin
by giving a more detailled proof of this result contained in (see
\cite{ershdur}). In the second part, we give an application of the existence of
such graphs. We obtain bounds of the correct order for some functional of the
local time of a simple random walk on an infinite cluster on the percolation
model.
  This paper deals with the computation of the rank and of some integer Smith
forms of a series of sparse matrices arising in algebraic K-theory. The number
of non zero entries in the considered matrices ranges from 8 to 37 millions.
The largest rank computation took more than 35 days on 50 processors. We report
on the actual algorithms we used to build the matrices, their link to the
motivic cohomology and the linear algebra and parallelizations required to
perform such huge computations. In particular, these results are part of the
first computation of the cohomology of the linear group GL_7(Z).
  We consider a cognitive network consisting of n random pairs of cognitive
transmitters and receivers communicating simultaneously in the presence of
multiple primary users. Of interest is how the maximum throughput achieved by
the cognitive users scales with n. Furthermore, how far these users must be
from a primary user to guarantee a given primary outage. Two scenarios are
considered for the network scaling law: (i) when each cognitive transmitter
uses constant power to communicate with a cognitive receiver at a bounded
distance away, and (ii) when each cognitive transmitter scales its power
according to the distance to a considered primary user, allowing the cognitive
transmitter-receiver distances to grow. Using single-hop transmission, suitable
for cognitive devices of opportunistic nature, we show that, in both scenarios,
with path loss larger than 2, the cognitive network throughput scales linearly
with the number of cognitive users. We then explore the radius of a primary
exclusive region void of cognitive transmitters. We obtain bounds on this
radius for a given primary outage constraint. These bounds can help in the
design of a primary network with exclusive regions, outside of which cognitive
users may transmit freely. Our results show that opportunistic secondary
spectrum access using single-hop transmission is promising.
  We introduce a new tool to study the spectral type of rank one
transformations using the method of central limit theorem for trigonometric
sums. We get some new applications.
  We present in this note the existence and uniqueness results for the Stokes
and Navier-Stokes equations which model the laminar flow of an incompressible
fluid inside a two-dimensional channel of periodic sections. The data of the
pressure loss coefficient enables us to establish a relation on the pressure
and to thus formulate an equivalent problem.
  The object of the present paper is to show the existence and the uniqueness
of a reproductive strong solution of the Navier-Stokes equations, i.e. the
solution $\boldsymbol{u} $ belongs to $\text{}\mathbf{L}% ^{\infty}(0,T;V) \cap
\mathbf{L}^{2}(0,T;\mathbf{H}% ^{2}(\Omega))$ and satisfies the property
$\boldsymbol{u}% (\boldsymbol{x,}T) =\boldsymbol{u}% (\boldsymbol{x,}0)
=\boldsymbol{u}_{0}(\boldsymbol{x})$. One considers the case of an
incompressible fluid in two dimensions with nonhomogeneous boundary conditions,
and external forces are neglected.
  In this paper, we give some existence results of stong solutions for the
energy equation associated to the Navier-Stokes equations with nonhomogeneous
boundary conditions in two dimension.
  Let K be a compact subset of ${\mathbb R}^n$. We choose at random with
uniform law a point at distance $\epsilon$ of K and start a Brownian motion
(BM) from this point. We study the probability that this BM hits K for the
first time at a distance $\geq r$ from the starting point.
  The aim of this article is to study a nonlinear system modeling a
Non-Newtonian fluid of polymer aqueous solutions. We are interested here in the
existence of weak solutions for the stationary problem in a bounded plane
domain or in two-dimensional exterior domain. Due to the third order of
derivatives in the non-linear term, it's difficult to obtain solution
satisfying energy inequality. But with a good choice of boundary conditions, an
adapt special basis and the use of the good properties of the trilinear form
associated to the non-linear term, we obtain energy solutions. The problem in
bounded domain is treated and the more difficult problem on non bounded domain
too.
  We give a reformulation of a six-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e VI
systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_6^{(1)}$ from the viewpoint
of its symmetry and holomorphy properties.
  We consider non-negative solutions of the fast diffusion equation $u_t=\Delta
u^m$ with $m \in (0,1)$, in the Euclidean space R^d, d?3, and study the
asymptotic behavior of a natural class of solutions, in the limit corresponding
to $t\to\infty$ for $m\ge m_c=(d-2)/d$, or as t approaches the extinction time
when m < mc. For a class of initial data we prove that the solution converges
with a polynomial rate to a self-similar solution, for t large enough if $m\ge
m_c$, or close enough to the extinction time if m < mc. Such results are new in
the range $m\le m_c$ where previous approaches fail. In the range mc < m < 1 we
improve on known results.
  Power control is a fundamental task accomplished in any wireless cellular
network; its aim is to set the transmit power of any mobile terminal, so that
each user is able to achieve its own target SINR. While conventional power
control algorithms require knowledge of a number of parameters of the signal of
interest and of the multiaccess interference, in this paper it is shown that in
a large CDMA system much of this information can be dispensed with, and
effective distributed power control algorithms may be implemented with very
little information on the user of interest. An uplink CDMA system subject to
flat fading is considered with a focus on the cases in which a linear MMSE
receiver and a non-linear MMSE serial interference cancellation receiver are
adopted; for the latter case new formulas are also given for the system SINR in
the large system asymptote. Experimental results show an excellent agreement
between the performance and the power profile of the proposed distributed
algorithms and that of conventional ones that require much greater prior
knowledge.
  We prove that certain numbers occurring in a problem of paths enumeration,
studied by Niederhausen (Catlan Traffic at the Beach, The Electronic Journal of
Combinatorics, 9, (2002), 1--17), are top intersection numbers in the
cohomology ring of the grassmannians of the lines in the complex projective
(n+1)-space.
  We prove a lower bound on the Seshadri constant $\epsilon (L)$ on a $K3$
surface $S$ with $\Pic S \simeq \ZZ[L]$. In particular, we obtain that
$\epsilon (L)=\alpha$ if $L^2=\alpha^2$ for an integer $\alpha$.
  Let $K$ be a field and let $A$ be a finitely generated prime $K$-algebra. We
generalize a result of Smith and Zhang, showing that if $A$ is not PI and does
not have a locally nilpotent ideal, then the extended centre of $A$ has
transcendence degree at most ${\rm GKdim}(A)-2$ over $K$. As a consequence, we
are able to show that if $A$ is a prime $K$-algebra of quadratic growth, then
either the extended centre is a finite extension of K or $A$ is PI. Finally, we
give an example of a finitely generated non-PI prime $K$-algebra of GK
dimension 2 with a locally nilpotent ideal such that the extended centre has
infinite transcendence degree over $K$.
  We determine sufficient conditions on the volatility coefficient of Musiela's
stochastic partial differential equation driven by an infinite dimensional
L{\'e}vy process so that it admits a unique local mild solution in spaces of
functions whose first derivative is square integrable with respect to a weight.
  We study prime algebras of quadratic growth. Our first result is that if $A$
is a prime monomial algebra of quadratic growth then $A$ has finitely many
prime ideals $P$ such that $A/P$ has GK dimension one. This shows that prime
monomial algebras of quadratic growth have bounded matrix images. We next show
that a prime graded algebra of quadratic growth has the property that the
intersection of the nonzero prime ideals $P$ such that $A/P$ has GK dimension 2
is non-empty, provided there is at least one such ideal. From this we conclude
that a prime monomial algebra of quadratic growth is either primitive or has
nonzero locally nilpotent Jacobson radical. Finally, we show that there exists
a prime monomial algebra $A$ of GK dimension two with unbounded matrix images
and thus the quadratic growth hypothesis is necessary to conclude that there
are only finitely many prime ideals such that $A/P$ has GK dimension 1.
  This paper is focused on the cross-layer design problem of joint multiuser
detection and power control for energy-efficiency optimization in a wireless
data network through a game-theoretic approach. Building on work of Meshkati,
et al., wherein the tools of game-theory are used in order to achieve
energy-efficiency in a simple synchronous code division multiple access system,
system asynchronism, the use of bandlimited chip-pulses, and the multipath
distortion induced by the wireless channel are explicitly incorporated into the
analysis. Several non-cooperative games are proposed wherein users may vary
their transmit power and their uplink receiver in order to maximize their
utility, which is defined here as the ratio of data throughput to transmit
power. In particular, the case in which a linear multiuser detector is adopted
at the receiver is considered first, and then, the more challenging case in
which non-linear decision feedback multiuser detectors are employed is
considered. The proposed games are shown to admit a unique Nash equilibrium
point, while simulation results show the effectiveness of the proposed
solutions, as well as that the use of a decision-feedback multiuser receiver
brings remarkable performance improvements.
  We introduce fusion algebras with not necessarily positive structure
constants and without identity element. We prove that they are semisimple when
tensored with $\mathbb{C}$ and that their characters satisfy orthogonality
relations. Then we define the proper notion of subrings and factor rings for
such algebras. For certain algebras $R$ we prove the existence of a ring $R'$
with nonnegative structure constants such that $R$ is a factor ring of $R'$. We
give some examples of interesting factor rings of the representation ring of
the quantum double of a finite group. Then, we investigate the algebras
associated to Hadamard matrices. For an $n\times n$-matrix the corresponding
algebra is a factor ring of a subalgebra of
$\mathbb{Z}[{(\mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z})}^{n-2}]$.
  In this paper we introduce a variant of pushdown dimension called bounded
pushdown (BPD) dimension, that measures the density of information contained in
a sequence, relative to a BPD automata, i.e. a finite state machine equipped
with an extra infinite memory stack, with the additional requirement that every
input symbol only allows a bounded number of stack movements. BPD automata are
a natural real-time restriction of pushdown automata. We show that BPD
dimension is a robust notion by giving an equivalent characterization of BPD
dimension in terms of BPD compressors. We then study the relationships between
BPD compression, and the standard Lempel-Ziv (LZ) compression algorithm, and
show that in contrast to the finite-state compressor case, LZ is not universal
for bounded pushdown compressors in a strong sense: we construct a sequence
that LZ fails to compress signicantly, but that is compressed by at least a
factor 2 by a BPD compressor. As a corollary we obtain a strong separation
between finite-state and BPD dimension.
  We construct a homotopy invariant index for pathes in the set of invertible
tripotents in a JB*-triple that satisfy a Fredholm type condition with respect
to a fixed invertible tripotent. That index generalizes the Maslov index in the
Fredholm-Lagrangian of a symplectic Hilbert space.
  We present a four-parameter family of ordinary differential systems in
dimension three with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_4^{(1)}$. By
obtaining its first integral, we can reduce this system to the second-order
non-linear ordinary differential equations of Painlev\'e type. We also study
this system restricted its parameters. Each system can be obtained by
connecting some invariant divisors in the system of type $D_4^{(1)}$. Each
system admits affine Weyl group symmetry of types
$B_3^{(1)},G_2^{(1)},D_3^{(2)}$ and $A_2^{(2)}$, respectively. These
symmetries, holomorphy conditions and invariant divisors are new.
  We give a new approach to the symmetries of the Painlev\'e equations
$P_{V},P_{IV},P_{III}$ and $P_{II}$, respectively. Moreover, we make natural
extensions to fourth-order analogues for each of the Painlev\'e equations
$P_{V}$ and $P_{III}$, respectively, which are natural in the sense that they
preserve the symmetries.
  We proved that for any matrix dilation and for any positive integer $n$,
there exists a compactly supported tight wavelet frame with approximation order
$n$. Explicit methods for construction of dual and tight wavelet frames with a
given number of vanishing moments are suggested.
  Given any positive sequence (\{c_n\}_{n \in {\Bbb N}}), we construct
orientation preserving homeomorphisms (f:{\Bbb R}^3 \to {\Bbb R}^3) such that
(Fix(f)=Per(f)=\{0\}), (0) is Lyapunov stable and (\limsup \frac{|i(f^m,
0)|}{c_m}= \infty). We will use our results to discuss and to point out some
strong differences with respect to the computation and behavior of the
sequences of the indices of planar homeomorphisms.
  In this paper we find new examples of Riemannian manifolds with outermost
apparent horizons with nonspherical topology, in dimensions four and above.
More precisely, for any $n,m\ge1$, we construct asymptotically flat, scalar
flat Riemannian manifolds containing smooth outermost minimal hypersurfaces
with topology $S^n\times S^{m+1}$. In the context of general relativity these
hypersurfaces correspond to outermost apparent horizons of black holes.
  Let R_{n,d} be the ring of invariants of d-tuples of n x n matrices under the
simultaneous conjugation action of the general linear group. A minimal
generating system and a homogeneous system of parameters for R_{3,3} are
determined. Homogeneous systems of parameters for R_{3,2}, R_{4,2} are also
pointed out.
  An upper bound on degrees of elements of a minimal generating system for
invariants of quivers of dimension (2,...,2) is established over a field of
arbitrary characteristic and its precision is estimated. The proof is based on
the reduction to the problem of description of maximal paths satisfying certain
condition.
  Let H be a Hopf algebra of dimension pq over an algebraically closed field of
characteristic zero, where p, q are odd primes with p < q < 4p+12. We prove
that H is semisimple and thus isomorphic to a group algebra, or the dual of a
group algebra.
  New relations are established between families of three-variable Mahler
measures. Those identities are then expressed as transformations for the
$_5F_4$ hypergeometric function. We use these results to obtain two explicit
$_5F_4$ evaluations, and several new formulas for $1/\pi$.
  For a prime $p$ and an absolutely irreducible modulo $p$ polynomial $f(U,V)
\in \Z[U,V]$ we obtain an asymptotic formulas for the number of solutions to
the congruence $f(x,y) \equiv a \pmod p$ in positive integers $x \le X$, $y \le
Y$, with the additional condition $\gcd(x,y)=1$. Such solutions have a natural
interpretation as solutions which are visible from the origin. These formulas
are derived on average over $a$ for a fixed prime $p$, and also on average over
$p$ for a fixed integer $a$.
  We extend Szemeredi's Regularity Lemma (SRL) to abstract measure spaces. Our
main aim is to find general conditions under which the original proof of
Szemeredi still works. To illustrate that our approach has some merit, we
outline several applications. Some of these applications seem to be tailored to
our approach: in particular, we are not aware of any alternative proofs.
  On a fading channel with no channel state information at the receiver,
calculating true log-likelihood ratios (LLR) is complicated. Existing work
assume that the power of the additive noise is known and use the expected value
of the fading gain in a linear function of the channel output to find
approximate LLRs. In this work, we first assume that the power of the additive
noise is known and we find the optimum linear approximation of LLRs in the
sense of maximum achievable transmission rate on the channel. The maximum
achievable rate under this linear LLR calculation is almost equal to the
maximum achievable rate under true LLR calculation. We also observe that this
method appears to be the optimum in the sense of bit error rate performance
too. These results are then extended to the case that the noise power is
unknown at the receiver and a performance almost identical to the case that the
noise power is perfectly known is obtained.
  In this article we prove that equation $\phi(x)=n$, for a fixed $n$, admits a
finite number of solutions, we find the general form of these solutions, and we
show that: if $x_0$ is a unique solution of this equation then $x_0$ is a
product of a very large number of primes (we conjecture that the number of such
primes is infinite).
  We study Markov processes associated with stochastic differential equations,
whose non-linearities are gradients of convex functionals. We prove a general
result of existence of such Markov processes and a priori estimates on the
transition probabilities. The main result is the following stability property:
if the associated invariant measures converge weakly, then the Markov processes
converge in law. The proofs are based on the interpretation of a Fokker-Planck
equation as the steepest descent flow of the relative Entropy functional in the
space of probability measures, endowed with the Wasserstein distance.
Applications include stochastic partial differential equations and convergence
of equilibrium fluctuations for a class of random interfaces.
  We give expressions for the characters of $(1,p)$ logarithmic conformal field
models in the Gordon-type form. The formulas are obtained in terms of
``quasiparticles'' that are Virasoro $\Phi_{2,1}$ primary fields and generalize
the symplectic fermions.
  We find and study four kinds of five-parameter family of six-dimensional
coupled Painlev\'e III systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of types
$D_5^{(1)},B_5^{(1)}$ and $D_6^{(2)}$. We show that each system is equivalent
by an explicit birational and symplectic transformation, respectively. We also
show that we characterize each system from the viewpoint of holomorphy.
  Some results on the discontinuity properties of the Lempert function and the
Kobayashi pseudometric in the spectral ball are given.
  We propose a method to study the integrable cellular automata with periodic
boundary conditions, via the tropical spectral curve and its Jacobian. We
introduce the tropical version of eigenvector map from the isolevel set to a
divisor class on the tropical hyperelliptic curve. We also provide some
conjectures related to the divisor class and the Jacobian. Finally, we apply
our method to the periodic box and ball system and clarify the
algebro-geometrical meaning of the real torus introduced for its initial value
problem.
  In the paper the role of conservation laws in evolutionary processes, which
proceed in material systems (in material media) and lead to generation of
physical fields, is shown using skew-symmetric differential forms.
  In present paper the skew-symmetric differential forms on deforming
(nondifferentiable) manifolds were used in addition to exterior forms, which
have differentiable manifolds as a basis. Such skew-symmetric forms (which were
named evolutionary ones since they possess evolutionary properties), as well as
the closed exterior forms, describe the conservation laws. But in contrast to
exterior forms, which describe conservation laws for physical fields, the
evolutionary forms correspond to conservation laws for material systems.
  The evolutionary forms possess an unique peculiarity, namely, the closed
exterior forms are obtained from these forms. It is just this that enables one
to describe the process of generation of physical fields, to disclose
connection between physical fields and material systems and to resolve many
problems of existing field theories.
  A main distinguishing feature of a wireless network compared with a wired
network is its broadcast nature, in which the signal transmitted by a node may
reach several other nodes, and a node may receive signals from several other
nodes simultaneously. Rather than a blessing, this feature is treated more as
an interference-inducing nuisance in most wireless networks today (e.g., IEEE
802.11). This paper shows that the concept of network coding can be applied at
the physical layer to turn the broadcast property into a capacity-boosting
advantage in wireless ad hoc networks. Specifically, we propose a
physical-layer network coding (PNC) scheme to coordinate transmissions among
nodes. In contrast to straightforward network coding which performs coding
arithmetic on digital bit streams after they have been received, PNC makes use
of the additive nature of simultaneously arriving electromagnetic (EM) waves
for equivalent coding operation. And in doing so, PNC can potentially achieve
100% and 50% throughput increases compared with traditional transmission and
straightforward network coding, respectively, in multi-hop networks. More
specifically, the information-theoretic capacity of PNC is almost double that
of traditional transmission in the SNR region of practical interest (higher
than 0dB). We believe this is a first paper that ventures into EM-wave-based
network coding at the physical layer and demonstrates its potential for
boosting network capacity.
  We find and study four kinds of a 4-parameter family of four-dimensional
coupled Painlev\'e III systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of types
$B_4^{(1)}$, $D_4^{(1)}$ and $D_5^{(2)}$. We also show that these systems are
equivalent by an explicit birational and symplectic transformation,
respectively.
  We find four kinds of six-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e VI systems
in dimension four with affine Weyl group symmetry of types $B_6^{(1)}$,
$D_6^{(1)}$ and $D_7^{(2)}$. Each system is the first example which gave
higher-order Painlev\'e equations of types $B_l^{(1)},D_l^{(1)}$ and
$D_l^{(2)}$, respectively. Each system can be expressed as a polynomial
Hamiltonian system. We show that these systems are equivalent by an explicit
birational and symplectic transformation, respectively. By giving each
holomorphy condition, we can recover each system. These symmetries, holomorphy
conditions and invariant divisors are new. We also give an explicit description
of a confluence process from the system of type $D_6^{(1)}$ to the system of
type $A_5^{(1)}$ by taking the coupling confluence process from the Painlev\'e
VI system to the Painlev\'e V system.
  Diese kurze Einfuehrung in Theorie und Berechnung linearer Rekurrenzen
versucht, eine Luecke in der Literatur zu fuellen. Zu diesem Zweck sind viele
ausfuehrliche Beispiele angegeben.
  This short introduction to theory and usage of linear recurrences tries to
fill a gap in the literature by giving many extensive examples.
  After attaching explicitly to the M\"obius strip an invertible module over
the ring of real polynomial functions on the real circle, we expound as
directly as possible the many faces and the main algebraic properties of
invertible modules. The goal is to make this algebraic concept accessible to a
wide mathematical audience.
  We consider the small time semi-classical limit for nonlinear Schrodinger
equations with defocusing, smooth, nonlinearity. For a super-cubic
nonlinearity, the limiting system is not directly hyperbolic, due to the
presence of vacuum. To overcome this issue, we introduce new unknown functions,
which are defined nonlinearly in terms of the wave function itself. This
approach provides a local version of the modulated energy functional introduced
by Y.Brenier. The system we obtain is hyperbolic symmetric, and the
justification of WKB analysis follows.
  This note is devoted to the explicit construction of a functional defined on
all pairs of $\L1$ functions with small total variation, which is equivalent to
the $\L1$ distance and non increasing along the trajectories of a given system
of conservation laws. Two different constructions are provided, yielding an
extension of the original stability functional by Bressan, Liu and Yang.
  In this paper we study the problem of adaptive estimation of a multivariate
function satisfying some structural assumption. We propose a novel estimation
procedure that adapts simultaneously to unknown structure and smoothness of the
underlying function. The problem of structural adaptation is stated as the
problem of selection from a given collection of estimators. We develop a
general selection rule and establish for it global oracle inequalities under
arbitrary $\rL_p$--losses. These results are applied for adaptive estimation in
the additive multi--index model.
  We show equivalence of pure point diffraction and pure point dynamical
spectrum for measurable dynamical systems build from locally finite measures on
locally compact Abelian groups. This generalizes all earlier results of this
type. Our approach is based on a study of almost periodicity in a Hilbert
space. It allows us to set up a perturbation theory for arbitrary equivariant
measurable perturbations.
  In this paper we study the aggregation problem that can be formulated as
follows. Assume that we have a family of estimators $\mathcal{F}$ built on the
basis of available observations. The goal is to construct a new estimator whose
risk is as close as possible to that of the best estimator in the family. We
propose a general aggregation scheme that is universal in the following sense:
it applies for families of arbitrary estimators and a wide variety of models
and global risk measures. The procedure is based on comparison of empirical
estimates of certain linear functionals with estimates induced by the family
$\mathcal{F}$. We derive oracle inequalities and show that they are
unimprovable in some sense. Numerical results demonstrate good practical
behavior of the procedure.
  In this note we explain that homotopy coherent simplicial nerve has to used
intead of the standard definition in the author's papers on formal deformation
theory. A convenient version of the notion of fibered category is presented
which is useful once one works with simplicial categories.
  "Extended Clifford algebras" are introduced as a means to obtain low ML
decoding complexity space-time block codes. Using left regular matrix
representations of two specific classes of extended Clifford algebras, two
systematic algebraic constructions of full diversity Distributed Space-Time
Codes (DSTCs) are provided for any power of two number of relays. The left
regular matrix representation has been shown to naturally result in space-time
codes meeting the additional constraints required for DSTCs. The DSTCs so
constructed have the salient feature of reduced Maximum Likelihood (ML)
decoding complexity. In particular, the ML decoding of these codes can be
performed by applying the lattice decoder algorithm on a lattice of four times
lesser dimension than what is required in general. Moreover these codes have a
uniform distribution of power among the relays and in time, thus leading to a
low Peak to Average Power Ratio at the relays.
  A set of sufficient conditions to construct $\lambda$-real symbol Maximum
Likelihood (ML) decodable STBCs have recently been provided by Karmakar et al.
STBCs satisfying these sufficient conditions were named as Clifford Unitary
Weight (CUW) codes. In this paper, the maximal rate (as measured in complex
symbols per channel use) of CUW codes for $\lambda=2^a,a\in\mathbb{N}$ is
obtained using tools from representation theory. Two algebraic constructions of
codes achieving this maximal rate are also provided. One of the constructions
is obtained using linear representation of finite groups whereas the other
construction is based on the concept of right module algebra over
non-commutative rings. To the knowledge of the authors, this is the first paper
in which matrices over non-commutative rings is used to construct STBCs. An
algebraic explanation is provided for the 'ABBA' construction first proposed by
Tirkkonen et al and the tensor product construction proposed by Karmakar et al.
Furthermore, it is established that the 4 transmit antenna STBC originally
proposed by Tirkkonen et al based on the ABBA construction is actually a single
complex symbol ML decodable code if the design variables are permuted and
signal sets of appropriate dimensions are chosen.
  The problem of designing high rate, full diversity noncoherent space-time
block codes (STBCs) with low encoding and decoding complexity is addressed.
First, the notion of $g$-group encodable and $g$-group decodable linear STBCs
is introduced. Then for a known class of rate-1 linear designs, an explicit
construction of fully-diverse signal sets that lead to four-group encodable and
four-group decodable differential scaled unitary STBCs for any power of two
number of antennas is provided. Previous works on differential STBCs either
sacrifice decoding complexity for higher rate or sacrifice rate for lower
decoding complexity.
  The differential encoding/decoding setup introduced by Kiran et al, Oggier et
al and Jing et al for wireless relay networks that use codebooks consisting of
unitary matrices is extended to allow codebooks consisting of scaled unitary
matrices. For such codebooks to be used in the Jing-Hassibi protocol for
cooperative diversity, the conditions that need to be satisfied by the relay
matrices and the codebook are identified. A class of previously known rate one,
full diversity, four-group encodable and four-group decodable Differential
Space-Time Codes (DSTCs) is proposed for use as Distributed DSTCs (DDSTCs) in
the proposed set up. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first known low
decoding complexity DDSTC scheme for cooperative wireless networks.
  We present a novel notion of stable objects in the derived category of
coherent sheaves on a smooth projective variety. As one application we
compactify a moduli space of stable bundles using genuine complexes.
  A finite group $G$ is of central type (in the non-classical sense) if it
admits a non-degenerate cohomology class $[c]\in H^2(G,\C^*)$ ($G$ acts
trivially on $\C^*$). Groups of central type play a fundamental role in the
classification of semisimple triangular complex Hopf algebras and can be
determined by their representation theoretical properties.
  Suppose that a finite group $Q$ acts on an abelian group $A$ so that there
exists a bijective 1-cocycle $\pi\in Z^1(Q,\ach)$, where
$\ach=\rm{Hom}(A,\C^*)$ is endowed with the diagonal $Q$-action. Under this
assumption, Etingof and Gelaki gave an explicit formula for a non-degenerate
2-cocycle in $Z^2(G,\C^*)$, where $G:=A\rtimes Q$. Hence, the semidirect
product $G$ is of central type.
  In this paper we present a more general correspondence between bijective and
non-degenerate cohomology classes. In particular, given a bijective class
$[\pi]\in H^1(Q,\ach)$ as above, we construct non-degenerate classes
$[c_{\pi}]\in H^2(G,\C^*)$ for certain extensions $1\to A\to G\to Q\to 1$ which
are not necessarily split. We thus strictly extend the above family of central
type groups.
  In this paper we derive the generating function of RNA structures with
pseudoknots. We enumerate all $k$-noncrossing RNA pseudoknot structures
categorized by their maximal sets of mutually intersecting arcs. In addition we
enumerate pseudoknot structures over circular RNA. For 3-noncrossing RNA
structures and RNA secondary structures we present a novel 4-term recursion
formula and a 2-term recursion, respectively. Furthermore we enumerate for
arbitrary $k$ all $k$-noncrossing, restricted RNA structures i.e.
$k$-noncrossing RNA structures without 2-arcs i.e. arcs of the form $(i,i+2)$,
for $1\le i\le n-2$.
  Two new series of substitution tilings are introduced in which the tiles
appear in infinitely many orientations. It is shown that several properties of
the well-known pinwheel tiling do also hold for these new examples, and, in
fact, for all substitution tilings showing tiles in infinitely many
orientations.
  We construct a three-parameter deformation of the Hopf algebra $\LDIAG$. This
is the algebra that appears in an expansion in terms of Feynman-like diagrams
of the {\em product formula} in a simplified version of Quantum Field Theory.
This new algebra is a true Hopf deformation which reduces to $\LDIAG$ for some
parameter values and to the algebra of Matrix Quasi-Symmetric Functions
($\MQS$) for others, and thus relates $\LDIAG$ to other Hopf algebras of
contemporary physics. Moreover, there is an onto linear mapping preserving
products from our algebra to the algebra of Euler-Zagier sums.
  We show, by an elementary and explicit construction, that the group of
Hamiltonian diffeomorphisms of certain symplectic manifolds, endowed with
Hofer's metric, contains subgroups quasi-isometric to Euclidean spaces of
arbitrary dimension.
  We study the Whitham equations for all the higher order KdV equations. The
Whitham equations are neither strictly hyperbolic nor genuinely nonlinear. We
are interested in the solution of the Whitham equations when the initial values
are given by a step function.
  The concept of star-duality is described for self-similar cut-and-project
tilings in arbitrary dimensions. This generalises Thurston's concept of a
Galois-dual tiling. The dual tilings of the Penrose tilings as well as the
Ammann-Beenker tilings are calculated. Conditions for a tiling to be self-dual
are obtained.
  We introduce a new method of calculating intersections on \bar{M}_{g,n},
using localization of equivariant cohomology. As an application, we give a
proof of Mirzakhani's recursion relation for calculating intersections of mixed
psi and kappa_1 classes.
  We consider the nonlinear Schroedinger equation in higher dimension with
Dirichlet boundary conditions and with a non-local smoothing nonlinearity. We
prove the existence of small amplitude periodic solutions. In the fully
resonant case we find solutions which at leading order are wave packets, in the
sense that they continue linear solutions with an arbitrarily large number of
resonant modes. The main difficulty in the proof consists in solving a "small
divisor problem" which we do by using a renormalisation group approach.
  The Extended BP (EBP) Generalized EXIT (GEXIT) function introduced in
\cite{MMRU05} plays a fundamental role in the asymptotic analysis of sparse
graph codes. For transmission over the binary erasure channel (BEC) the
analytic properties of the EBP GEXIT function are relatively simple and well
understood. The general case is much harder and even the existence of the curve
is not known in general. We introduce some tools from non-linear analysis which
can be useful to prove the existence of EXIT like curves in some cases. The
main tool is the Krasnoselskii-Rabinowitz (KR) bifurcation theorem.
  In this paper, we propose a novel inference method for dynamic genetic
networks which makes it possible to face with a number of time measurements n
much smaller than the number of genes p. The approach is based on the concept
of low order conditional dependence graph that we extend here in the case of
Dynamic Bayesian Networks. Most of our results are based on the theory of
graphical models associated with the Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs). In this
way, we define a minimal DAG G which describes exactly the full order
conditional dependencies given the past of the process. Then, to face with the
large p and small n estimation case, we propose to approximate DAG G by
considering low order conditional independencies. We introduce partial qth
order conditional dependence DAGs G(q) and analyze their probabilistic
properties. In general, DAGs G(q) differ from DAG G but still reflect relevant
dependence facts for sparse networks such as genetic networks. By using this
approximation, we set out a non-bayesian inference method and demonstrate the
effectiveness of this approach on both simulated and real data analysis. The
inference procedure is implemented in the R package 'G1DBN' freely available
from the CRAN archive.
  We calculate relations on characteristic classes which are obstructions
preventing closed K\"ahler manifolds from carrying holomorphic Cartan
geometries. We apply these relations to give global constraints on the phase
spaces of complex analytic determined and underdetermined systems of
differential equations.
  Let f: X -> Y be a smooth family of canonically polarized complex varieties
over a smooth base. Generalizing the classical Shafarevich hyperbolicity
conjecture, Viehweg conjectured that Y is necessarily of log general type if
the family has maximal variation. A somewhat stronger and more precise version
of Viehweg's conjecture was shown by the authors in arXiv:math/0511378 in the
case where Y is a quasi-projective surface. Assuming that the minimal model
program holds, this very short paper proves the same result for projective base
manifolds Y of arbitrary dimension.
  We introduce a model of random interlacements made of a countable collection
of doubly infinite paths on Z^d, d bigger or equal to 3. A non-negative
parameter u measures how many trajectories enter the picture. This model
describes in the large N limit the microscopic structure in the bulk, which
arises when considering the disconnection time of a discrete cylinder with base
a d-1-dimensional discrete torus of side-length N, or the set of points visited
by simple random walk on the d-dimensional discrete torus of side-length N by
times of order uN^d. We study the percolative properties of the vacant set left
by the interlacement at level u, which is an infinite, connected, translation
invariant random subset of Z^d. We introduce a critical value such that the
vacant set percolates for u below the critical value, and does not percolate
for u above the critical value. Our main results show that the critical value
is finite when d is bigger or equal to 3, and strictly positive when d is
bigger or equal to 7.
  We introduce and study the notion of a dual Feynman transform of a modular
operad. This generalizes and gives a conceptual explanation of Kontsevich's
dual construction producing graph cohomology classes from a contractible
differential graded Frobenius algebra. The dual Feynman transform of a modular
operad is indeed linear dual to the Feynman transform introduced by Getzler and
Kapranov when evaluated on vacuum graphs. In marked contrast to the Feynman
transform, the dual notion admits an extremely simple presentation via
generators and relations; this leads to an explicit and easy description of its
algebras. We discuss a further generalization of the dual Feynman transform
whose algebras are not necessarily contractible. This naturally gives rise to a
two-colored graph complex analogous to the Boardman-Vogt topological tree
complex.
  Starting with an adjoint pair of operators, under suitable abstract versions
of standard PDE hypotheses, we consider the Weyl M-function of extensions of
the operators. The extensions are determined by abstract boundary conditions
and we establish results on the relationship between the M-function as an
analytic function of a spectral parameter and the spectrum of the extension. We
also give an example where the M-function does not contain the whole spectral
information of the resolvent, and show that the results can be applied to
elliptic PDEs where the M-function corresponds to the Dirichlet to Neumann map.
  It is shown that a finitely generated branch group has Serre's property (FA)
if and only if it does not surject onto the infinite cyclic group or the
infinite dihedral group. An example of a finitely generated self-similar branch
group surjecting onto the infinite cyclic group is constructed.
  A higher order Painleve system of type D^{(1)}_{2n+2} was introduced by Y.
Sasano. It is an extension of the sixth Painleve equation for the affine Weyl
group symmetry. It is also expressed as a Hamiltonian system of order 2n with a
coupled Painleve VI Hamiltonian. In this paper, we discuss a derivation of this
system from a Drinfeld-Sokolov hierarchy.
  We generalize and greatly simplify the approach of Lydakis and
Dundas-R\"ondigs-{\O}stv{\ae}r to construct an L-stable model structure for
small functors from a closed symmetric monoidal model category V to a V-model
category M, where L is a small cofibrant object of V. For the special case
V=M=S_* pointed simplicial sets and L=S^1 this is the classical case of linear
functors and has been described as the first stage of the Goodwillie tower of a
homotopy functor. We show, that our various model structures are compatible
with a closed symmetric monoidal product on small functors. We compare them
with other L-stabilizations described by Hovey, Jardine and others. This gives
a particularly easy construction of the classical and the motivic stable
homotopy category with the correct smash product. We establish the monoid axiom
under certain conditions.
  We calculate the formal group law which represents the completion of the
N\'eron model of an algebraic torus over the rationals that splits in a tamely
ramified abelian extension. As a tools in the proof, we define and give
criterions to compute the Weil restriction of a formal group law and the analog
of the fixed part of a formal group law with respect to the action of a
(finite) group.
  If the coefficients of polynomials are selected by some random process, the
zeros of the resulting polynomials are in some sense random. In this paper the
author rephrases the above in more precise language, and calculates the joint
conditional densities of a random vector whose values determine almost surely
the zeros of a "random" reduced cubic.
  We characterize convex cocompact subgroups of the mapping class group of a
surface in terms of uniform convergence actions on the zero locus of the limit
set. We also construct subgroups that act as uniform convergence groups on
their limit sets, but are not convex cocompact.
  Topological T-duality is a transformation taking a gerbe on a principal torus
bundle to a gerbe on a principal dual-torus bundle. We give a new geometric
construction of T-dualization, which allows the duality to be extended in
following two directions. First, bundles of groups other than tori, even
bundles of some nonabelian groups, can be dualized. Second, bundles whose duals
are families of noncommutative groups (in the sense of noncommutative geometry)
can be treated, though in this case the base space of the bundles is best
viewed as a topological stack.
  Some methods developed for the construction may be of independent interest.
These are a Pontryagin type duality that interchanges commutative principal
bundles with gerbes, a nonabelian Takai type duality for groupoids, and the
computation of certain equivariant Brauer groups.
  Let G be an affine algebraic group acting on an affine variety
  X. We present an algorithm for computing generators of the invariant ring
K[X]^G in the case where G is reductive. Furthermore, we address the case where
G is connected and unipotent, so the invariant ring need not be finitely
generated. For this case, we develop an algorithm which computes K[X]^G in
terms of a so-called colon-operation. From this, generators of K[X]^G can be
obtained in finite time if it is finitely generated. Under the additional
hypothesis that K[X] is factorial, we present an algorithm that finds a
quasi-affine variety whose coordinate ring is K[X]^G. Along the way, we develop
some techniques for dealing with non-finitely generated algebras. In
particular, we introduce the finite generation locus ideal.
  This paper deals with the problem of increasing the minimum distance of a
linear code by adding one or more columns to the generator matrix. Several
methods to compute extensions of linear codes are presented. Many codes
improving the previously known lower bounds on the minimum distance have been
found.
  The cycling operation is a special kind of conjugation that can be applied to
elements in Artin's braid groups, in order to reduce their length. It is a key
ingredient of the usual solutions to the conjugacy problem in braid groups. In
their seminal paper on braid-cryptography, Ko, Lee et al. proposed the {\it
cycling problem} as a hard problem in braid groups that could be interesting
for cryptography. In this paper we give a polynomial solution to that problem,
mainly by showing that cycling is surjective, and using a result by Maffre
which shows that pre-images under cycling can be computed fast. This result
also holds in every Artin-Tits group of spherical type.
  On the other hand, the conjugacy search problem in braid groups is usually
solved by computing some finite sets called (left) ultra summit sets
(left-USS), using left normal forms of braids. But one can equally use right
normal forms and compute right-USS's. Hard instances of the conjugacy search
problem correspond to elements having big (left and right) USS's. One may think
that even if some element has a big left-USS, it could possibly have a small
right-USS. We show that this is not the case in the important particular case
of rigid braids. More precisely, we show that the left-USS and the right-USS of
a given rigid braid determine isomorphic graphs, with the arrows reversed, the
isomorphism being defined using iterated cycling. We conjecture that the same
is true for every element, not necessarily rigid, in braid groups and
Artin-Tits groups of spherical type.
  A discrete (finite-difference) analogue of differential forms is considered,
defined on simplicial complexes, including triangulations of continuous
manifolds. Various operations are explicitly defined on these forms, including
exterior derivative and exterior product. The latter one is non-associative.
Instead, as anticipated, it is a part of non-trivial A-infinity structure,
involving a chain of poly-linear operations, constrained by nilpotency
relation: (d + \wedge + m + ...)^n = 0 with n=2.
  Starting from ideas of Furuta, we develop a general formalism for the
construction of cohomotopy invariants associated with a certain class of
$S^1$-equivariant non-linear maps between Hilbert bundles. Applied to the
Seiberg-Witten map, this formalism yields a new class of cohomotopy
Seiberg-Witten invariants which have clear functorial properties with respect
to diffeomorphisms of 4-manifolds. Our invariants and the Bauer-Furuta classes
are directly comparable for 4-manifolds with $b_1=0$; they are equivalent when
$b_1=0$ and $b_+>1$, but are finer in the case $b_1=0$, $b_+=1$ (they detect
the wall-crossing phenomena).
  We study fundamental properties of the new invariants in a very general
framework. In particular we prove a universal cohomotopy invariant jump formula
and a multiplicative property. The formalism applies to other gauge theoretical
problems, e.g. to the theory of gauge theoretical (Hamiltonian) Gromov-Witten
invariants.
  We prove that the chromatic polynomial $P_\mathbb{G}(q)$ of a finite graph
$\mathbb{G}$ of maximal degree $\D$ is free of zeros for $\card q\ge C^*(\D)$
with $$ C^*(\D) = \min_{0<x<2^{1\over \D}-1} {(1+x)^{\D-1}\over x [2-(1+x)^\D]}
$$ This improves results by Sokal (2001) and Borgs (2005). Furthermore, we
present a strengthening of this condition for graphs with no triangle-free
vertices.
  We prove an existence theorem for gauge invariant $L^2$-normal neighborhoods
of the reduction loci in the space ${\cal A}_a(E)$ of oriented connections on a
fixed Hermitian 2-bundle $E$. We use this to obtain results on the topology of
the moduli space ${\cal B}_a(E)$ of (non-necessarily irreducible) oriented
connections, and to study the Donaldson $\mu$-classes globally around the
reduction loci. In this part of the article we use essentially the concept of
harmonic section in a sphere bundle with respect to an Euclidean connection.
  Second, we concentrate on moduli spaces of instantons on definite 4-manifolds
with arbitrary first Betti number. We prove strong generic regularity results
which imply (for bundles with "odd" first Chern class) the existence of a
connected, dense open set of "good" metrics for which all the reductions in the
Uhlenbeck compactification of the moduli space are simultaneously regular.
These results can be used to define new Donaldson type invariants for definite
4-manifolds. The idea behind this construction is to notice that, for a good
metric $g$, the geometry of the instanton moduli spaces around the reduction
loci is always the same, independently of the choice of $g$. The connectedness
of the space of good metrics is important, in order to prove that no
wall-crossing phenomena (jumps of invariants) occur. Moreover, we notice that,
for low instanton numbers, the corresponding moduli spaces are a priori compact
and contain no reductions at all so, in these cases, the existence of
well-defined Donaldson type invariants is obvious. The natural question is to
decide whether these new Donaldson type invariants yield essentially new
differential topological information on the base manifold have, or have a
purely topological nature.
  The first goal of the article is to solve several fundamental problems in the
theory of holomorphic bundles over non-algebraic manifolds: For instance we
prove that stability and semi-stability are Zariski open properties in families
when the Gauduchon degree map is a topological invariant, or when the parameter
manifold is compact. Second we show that, for a generically stable family of
bundles over a K\"ahler manifold, the Petersson-Weil form extends as a closed
positive current on the whole parameter space of the family. This extension
theorem uses classical tools from Yang-Mills theory developed by Donaldson
(e.g. the Donaldson functional and the heat equation for Hermitian metrics on a
holomorphic bundle). We apply these results to study families of bundles over a
K\"ahlerian manifold $Y$ parameterized by a non-K\"ahlerian surface $X$,
proving that such families must satisfy very restrictive conditions. These
results play an important role in our program to prove existence of curves on
class VII surfaces.
  The paper establishes, for a wide class of locally compact groupoids
$\Gamma$, the E-theoretic descent functor at the $C^{*}$-algebra level, in a
way parallel to that established for locally compact groups by Guentner, Higson
and Trout. The second section shows that $\Gamma$-actions on a
$C_{0}(X)$-algebra $B$, where $X$ is the unit space of $\Gamma$, can be
usefully formulated in terms of an action on the associated bundle
$B^{\sharp}$. The third section shows that the functor $B\to C^{*}(\Gamma,B)$
is continuous and exact, and uses the disintegration theory of J. Renault. The
last section establishes the existence of the descent functor under a very mild
condition on $\Gamma$, the main technical difficulty involved being that of
finding a $\Gamma$-algebra that plays the role of C_{b}(T,B)^{cont}$ in the
group case.
  In this paper we obtain general integral formulas for probabilities in the
asymmetric simple exclusion process (ASEP) on the integer lattice with nearest
neighbor hopping rates p to the right and q=1-p to the left. For the most part
we consider an N-particle system but for certain of these formulas we can take
the limit as N goes to infinity. First we obtain, for the N-particle system, a
formula for the probability of a configuration at time t, given the initial
configuration. For this we use Bethe Ansatz ideas to solve the master equation,
extending a result of Schuetz for the case N=2. The main results of the paper,
derived from this, are integral formulas for the probability, for given initial
configuration, that the m'th left-most particle is at x at time t. In one of
these formulas we can take the limit as N goes to infinity, and it gives the
probability for an infinite system where the initial configuration is bounded
on one side. For the special case of the totally asymmetric simple exclusion
process (TASEP) our formulas reduce to the known ones.
  We develop a general strategy, based on gauge theoretical methods, to prove
existence of curves on class VII surfaces. We prove that, for $b_2=2$, every
minimal class VII surface has a cycle of rational curves hence, by a result of
Nakamura, is a global deformation of a one parameter family of blown up primary
Hopf surfaces. The case $b_2=1$ has been solved in a previous article. The
fundamental object intervening in our strategy is the moduli space ${\mathcal
M}^{\pst}(0,{\mathcal K})$ of polystable bundles ${\mathcal E}$ with
$c_2({\mathcal E})=0$, $\det({\mathcal E})={\mathcal K}$. For large $b_2$ the
geometry of this moduli space becomes very complicated. The case $b_2=2$
treated here in detail requires new ideas and difficult techniques of both
complex geometric and gauge theoretical nature.
  We prove that any class $VII$ surface with $b_2=1$ has curves. This implies
the "Global Spherical Shell conjecture" in the case $b_2=1$: Any minimal class
$VII$ surface with $b_2=1$ admits a global spherical shell, hence it is
isomorphic to one of the surfaces in the known list. The main idea of the proof
is to show that a certain moduli space of PU(2)-instantons on a surface $X$
with no curves (if such a surface existed) would contain a closed Riemann
surface $Y$ whose general points correspond to non-filtrable holomorphic
bundles on $X$. Then we pass from a family of bundles on $X$ parameterized by
$Y$ to a family of bundles on $Y$ parameterized by $X$, and we use the
algebraicity of $Y$ to obtain a contradiction. The proof uses essentially
techniques from Donaldson theory: compactness theorems for moduli spaces of
PU(2)-instantons and the Kobayashi-Hitchin correspondence on surfaces.
  Withdrawn due to an incompleteness of the main results.
  The problem of joint universal source coding and modeling, treated in the
context of lossless codes by Rissanen, was recently generalized to fixed-rate
lossy coding of finitely parametrized continuous-alphabet i.i.d. sources. We
extend these results to variable-rate lossy block coding of stationary ergodic
sources and show that, for bounded metric distortion measures, any finitely
parametrized family of stationary sources satisfying suitable mixing,
smoothness and Vapnik-Chervonenkis learnability conditions admits universal
schemes for joint lossy source coding and identification. We also give several
explicit examples of parametric sources satisfying the regularity conditions.
  Mabuchi introduced multiplier Hermitian structures on compact Kahler
manifolds and defined metrics similar to Kahler-Einstein metrics under these
structures. In this note we generalize the inequality of Moser-Trudinger type
on Kahler-Einstein manifolds to this case.
  An interval coloring of a graph G is a proper coloring of E(G) by positive
integers such that the colors on the edges incident to any vertex are
consecutive. A (3,4)-biregular bigraph is a bipartite graph in which each
vertex of one part has degree 3 and each vertex of the other has degree 4; it
is unknown whether these all have interval colorings. We prove that G has an
interval coloring using 6 colors when G is a (3,4)-biregular bigraph having a
spanning subgraph whose components are paths with endpoints at 3-valent
vertices and lengths in {2,4,6,8}. We provide sufficient conditions for the
existence of such a subgraph.
  The problem of resource allocation is studied for a two-user fading
orthogonal multiaccess relay channel (MARC) where both users (sources)
communicate with a destination in the presence of a relay. A half-duplex relay
is considered that transmits on a channel orthogonal to that used by the
sources. The instantaneous fading state between every transmit-receive pair in
this network is assumed to be known at both the transmitter and receiver. Under
an average power constraint at each source and the relay, the sum-rate for the
achievable strategy of decode-and-forward (DF) is maximized over all power
allocations (policies) at the sources and relay. It is shown that the sum-rate
maximizing policy exploits the multiuser fading diversity to reveal the
optimality of opportunistic channel use by each user. A geometric
interpretation of the optimal power policy is also presented.
  A transmitter without channel state information (CSI) wishes to send a
delay-limited Gaussian source over a slowly fading channel. The source is coded
in superimposed layers, with each layer successively refining the description
in the previous one. The receiver decodes the layers that are supported by the
channel realization and reconstructs the source up to a distortion. In the
limit of a continuum of infinite layers, the optimal power distribution that
minimizes the expected distortion is given by the solution to a set of linear
differential equations in terms of the density of the fading distribution. In
the optimal power distribution, as SNR increases, the allocation over the
higher layers remains unchanged; rather the extra power is allocated towards
the lower layers. On the other hand, as the bandwidth ratio b (channel uses per
source symbol) tends to zero, the power distribution that minimizes expected
distortion converges to the power distribution that maximizes expected
capacity. While expected distortion can be improved by acquiring CSI at the
transmitter (CSIT) or by increasing diversity from the realization of
independent fading paths, at high SNR the performance benefit from diversity
exceeds that from CSIT, especially when b is large.
  This work presents an extended formulation of maximal stiffness design,
within the framework of the topology optimization. The mathematical formulation
of the optimization problem is based on the postulated principle of equal
dissipation rate during inelastic deformation. This principle leads to the
enforcement of stress constraints in domains where inelastic deformation would
occur. During the transition from the continuous structure to the truss-like
one (strut-and-tie model) the dissipation rate is kept constant using the
projected gradient method. The equal dissipation rate in the resulting truss
and in the original continuous structure can be regarded as an equivalence
statement and suggests an alternative understanding of physical motivation
behind the strut-and-tie modeling. The performance of the proposed formulation
is demonstrated with the help of two examples.
  We prove a Wegner estimate for a large class of multiparticle Anderson
Hamiltonians on the lattice. These estimates will allow us to prove Anderson
localization for such systems. A detailed proof of localization will be given
in a subsequent paper.
  Given a solution of a nonlinear wave equation on the flat space-time (with a
real analytic nonlinearity), we relate its Cauchy data at two different times
by nonlinear representation formulas in terms of asymptotic series. We first
show how to construct formally these series by mean of generating functions
based on an algebraic framework inspired by the construction of Fock spaces in
quantum field theory. Then we build an analytic setting in which all these
constructions really make sense and give rise to convergent series.
  A general method for solving linear differential equations of arbitrary
order, is used to arrive at new representations for the solutions of the known
differential equations, both without and with a source term. A new
quasi-solvable potential has also been constructed taking recourse to the above
method.
  Motivated by on-chip communication, a channel model is proposed where the
variance of the additive noise depends on the weighted sum of the past channel
input powers. For this channel, an expression for the capacity per unit cost is
derived, and it is shown that the expression holds also in the presence of
feedback.
  By a combination of geometrical and configurational analysis we study the
properties of absolute minimal and equilibrium states of general Mumford-Shah
functionals, with applications to models of quasistatic brittle fracture
propagation. The main results concern the mathematical relations between
physical quantities as energy release rate and energy concentration for 3D
cracks with complex shapes, seen as outer measures living on the crack edge.
  In this paper we complete a classification of finite linear spaces $\cS$ with
line size at most 12 admitting a line-transitive point-imprimitive subgroup of
automorphisms. The examples are the Desarguesian projective planes of orders
$4,7, 9$ and 11, two designs on 91 points with line size 6, and 467 designs on
729 points with line size 8.
  For general quantum systems the semiclassical behaviour of eigenfunctions in
relation to the ergodic properties of the underlying classical system is quite
difficult to understand. The Wignerfunctions of eigenstates converge weakly to
invariant measures of the classical system, the so called quantum limits, and
one would like to understand which invariant measures can occur that way,
thereby classifying the semiclassical behaviour of eigenfunctions. We introduce
a class of maps on the torus for whose quantisations we can understand the set
of quantum limits in great detail. In particular we can construct examples of
ergodic maps which have singular ergodic measures as quantum limits, and
examples of non-ergodic maps where arbitrary convex combinations of absolutely
continuous ergodic measures can occur as quantum limits. The maps we quantise
are obtained by cutting and stacking.
  We study the relation between PageRank and other parameters of information
networks such as in-degree, out-degree, and the fraction of dangling nodes. We
model this relation through a stochastic equation inspired by the original
definition of PageRank. Further, we use the theory of regular variation to
prove that PageRank and in-degree follow power laws with the same exponent. The
difference between these two power laws is in a multiple coefficient, which
depends mainly on the fraction of dangling nodes, average in-degree, the power
law exponent, and damping factor. The out-degree distribution has a minor
effect, which we explicitly quantify. Our theoretical predictions show a good
agreement with experimental data on three different samples of the Web.
  We investigate the a matrix-type coring associated to a complete covering of
an algebra, its Amitsur complex and propose a definition for the related Cech
cohomology relative to the covering.
  We construct new families of spectral triples over quantum spheres, with a
particular attention focused on the standard Podles quantum sphere and twisted
Dirac operators.
  The dynamical discrete web (DDW), introduced in recent work of Howitt and
Warren, is a system of coalescing simple symmetric one-dimensional random walks
which evolve in an extra continuous dynamical parameter s. The evolution is by
independent updating of the underlying Bernoulli variables indexed by discrete
space-time that define the discrete web at any fixed s. In this paper, we study
the existence of exceptional (random) values of s where the paths of the web do
not behave like usual random walks and the Hausdorff dimension of the set of
such exceptional s. Our results are motivated by those about exceptional times
for dynamical percolation in high dimension by H\"aggstrom, Peres and Steif,
and in dimension two by Schramm and Steif. The exceptional behavior of the
walks in DDW is rather different from the situation for dynamical random walks
of Benjamini, H\"aggstrom, Peres and Steif. In particular, we prove that there
are exceptional values of s for which the walk from the origin S^s(n) has
limsup S^s(n)/\sqrt n \leq K with a nontrivial dependence of the Hausdorff
dimension on K. We also discuss how these and other results extend to the
dynamical Brownian web, a natural scaling limit of DDW. The scaling limit is
the focus of a paper in preparation; it was studied by Howitt and Warren and is
related to the Brownian net of Sun and Swart.
  For given matrix $A\in\Z^{d\times n}$, the set $P_{b}=\{z:Az=b,z\in\Z^n_+\}$
describes the preimage or fiber of $b\in\Z^d$ under the $\Z$-linear map
$f_A:\Z^n_+\to\Z^d$, $x\mapsto Ax$. The fiber $P_{b}$ is called atomic, if
$P_{b}=P_{b_1}+P_{b_2}$ implies $b=b_1$ or $b=b_2$. In this paper we present a
novel algorithm to compute such atomic fibers. An algorithmic solution to
appearing subproblems, computational examples and applications are included as
well.
  We show that if a meromorphic function has a direct singularity over
infinity, then the escaping set has an unbounded component and the intersection
of the escaping set with the Julia set contains continua. This intersection has
an unbounded component if and only if the function has no Baker wandering
domains. We also give estimates of the Hausdorff dimension and the upper box
dimension of the Julia set of a meromorphic function with a logarithmic
singularity over infinity. The above theorems are deduced from more general
results concerning functions which have "direct or logarithmic tracts", but
which need not be meromorphic in the plane. These results are obtained by using
a generalization of Wiman-Valiron theory. The method is also applied to complex
differential equations.
  The topological Tverberg theorem claims that for any continuous map of the
(q-1)(d+1)-simplex to R^d there are q disjoint faces such that their images
have a non-empty intersection. This has been proved for affine maps, and if $q$
is a prime power, but not in general.
  We extend the topological Tverberg theorem in the following way: Pairs of
vertices are forced to end up in different faces. This leads to the concept of
constraint graphs. In Tverberg's theorem with constraints, we come up with a
list of constraints graphs for the topological Tverberg theorem.
  The proof is based on connectivity results of chessboard-type complexes.
Moreover, Tverberg's theorem with constraints implies new lower bounds for the
number of Tverberg partitions. As a consequence, we prove Sierksma's conjecture
for $d=2$, and $q=3$.
  In this paper, the strong solutions $ (X, L)$ of multidimensional stochastic
differential equations with reflecting boundary and possible anticipating
initial random variables is established. The key is to obtain some substitution
formula for Stratonovich integrals via a uniform convergence of the
corresponding Riemann sums and to prove continuity of functionals of $ (X, L)$.
  Connect each vertex of a convex quadrilateral Q to the midpoint of the next
(proceeding counterclockwise) side. The four connecting lines create an
interior quadrilateral I. We study the ratio area(I)/area(Q). We also determine
what happens to area(I)/area(Q) when the four midpoints are replaced by points
which divide the sides in the ratio of rho to (1-rho) proceeding clockwise.
Here rho is any fixed number satisfying 0 < rho < 1.
  J. G. Thompson showed that a finite group G is solvable if and only if every
two -generated subgroup is solvable. Recently, Grunevald, Kunyavskii, Nikolova,
and Plotkin have shown that the analogue holds for finite-dimensional Lie
algebras over infinite fields of characteristic greater than 5. It is a natural
question to ask to what extent the two-generated subalgebras determine the
structure of the algebra. It is to this question that this paper is addressed.
Here, we consider the classes of strongly-solvable and of supersolvable Lie
algebras, and the property of triangulability.
  We define the notion of complex stratification by quasifolds and show that
such spaces occur as complex quotients by certain nonclosed subgroups of tori
associated to convex polytopes. The spaces thus obtained provide a natural
generalization to the nonrational case of the notion of toric variety
associated with a rational convex polytope.
  The initial value problem for the cubic defocusing nonlinear Schr\"odinger
equation $i \partial_t u + \Delta u = |u|^2 u$ on the plane is shown to be
globally well-posed for initial data in $H^s (\R^2)$ provided $s>1/2$. The
proof relies upon an almost conserved quantity constructed using multilinear
correction terms. The main new difficulty is to control the contribution of
resonant interactions to these correction terms. The resonant interactions are
significant due to the multidimensional setting of the problem and some
orthogonality issues which arise.
  The diagram algebra introduced by Brauer that describes the centralizer
algebra on tensor products of the natural representation of an orthogonal group
has a presentation by generators and relations that only depends on the graph
of type An on n nodes. Here we describe an algebra depending on an arbitrary
graph of type M. We study its structure when the type is An, Dn, E6, E7, E8. We
determine the representations and find the dimensions. The algebra is
generically semisimple and contains the group algebra of the Coxeter type M as
a subalgebra. It is a ring homomorphism of the Birman-Murakami-Wenzl algebra of
these types. This fact will be used in later work determining the structure of
Birman-Murakami-Wenzl algebras of simply laced spherical type.
  We show that for Gaussian random SU(m+1) polynomials of a large degree N the
probability that there are no zeros in the disk of radius r is less than
$e^{-c_{1,r} N^{m+1}}$, and is also greater than $e^{-c_{2,r} N^{m+1}}$.
Enroute to this result, we also derive a more general result: probability
estimates for the event where the volume of the zero set of a random polynomial
of high degree deviates significantly from its mean.
  We prove the result stated in the title, which answers the equicharacteristic
case of a question of Vasconcelos.
  The Birman-Murakami-Wenzl algebra (BMW algebra) of type Dn is shown to be
semisimple and free of rank (2^n+1)n!!-(2^(n-1)+1)n! over a specified
commutative ring R, where n!! is the product of the first n odd integers. We
also show it is a cellular algebra over suitable ring extensions of R. The
Brauer algebra of type Dn is the image af an R-equivariant homomorphism and is
also semisimple and free of the same rank, but over the polynomial ring Z with
delta and its inverse adjoined. A rewrite system for the Brauer algebra is used
in bounding the rank of the BMW algebra above. As a consequence of our results,
the generalized Temperley-Lieb algebra of type Dn is a subalgebra of the BMW
algebra of the same type.
  We prove that Nahm transform for integrable connections with a finite number
of regular singularities and an irregular singularity of rank 1 on the Riemann
sphere is equivalent -- up to considering integrable connections as holonomic
$\D$-modules -- to minimal Laplace transform. We assume semi-simplicity and
resonance-freeness conditions, and we work in the framework of objects with a
parabolic structure. In particular, we describe the definition of the parabolic
version of Laplace transform due to C. Sabbah. The proof of the main result
relies on the study of a twisted de Rham complex.
  It is a survey of the results obtained by K. Glazek's and his co-workers. We
restrict our attention to the problems of axiomatizations of n-ary groups,
classes of n-ary groups, properties of skew elements and homomorphisms induced
by skew elements, constructions of covering groups, classifications and
representations of n-ary groups. Some new results are added too.
  A generalization of the Kauffman tangle algebra is given for Coxeter type Dn.
The tangles involve a pole or order 2. The algebra is shown to be isomorphic to
the Birman-Murakami-Wenzl algebra of the same type. This result extends the
isomorphism between the two algebras in the classical case, which in our
set-up, occurs when the Coxeter type is of type A with index n-1. The proof
involves a diagrammatic version of the Brauer algebra of type Dn in which the
Temperley-Lieb algebra of type Dn is a subalgebra.
  We study parabolic linear Weingarten surfaces in hyperbolic space
$\rlopezh^3$. In particular, we classify two family of parabolic surfaces:
surfaces with constant Gaussian curvature and surfaces that satisfy the
relation $a\kappa_1+b\kappa_2=c$, where $\kappa_i$ are the principal
curvatures, and $a,b$ and $c$ are constant.
  We introduce a new construction, the isotropy groupoid, to organize the orbit
data for split $\Gamma$-spaces. We show that equivariant principal $G$-bundles
over split $\Gamma$-CW complexes $X$ can be effectively classified by means of
representations of their isotropy groupoids. For instance, if the quotient
complex $A=\Gamma\backslash X$ is a graph, with all edge stabilizers toral
subgroups of $\Gamma$, we obtain a purely combinatorial classification of
bundles with structural group $G$ a compact connected Lie group. If $G$ is
abelian, our approach gives combinatorial and geometric descriptions of some
results of Lashof-May-Segal and Goresky-Kottwitz-MacPherson.
  The purpose of this article is to establish regularity and pointwise upper
bounds for the (relative) fundamental solution of the heat equation associated
to the weighted dbar-operator in $L^2(C^n)$ for a certain class of weights. The
weights depend on a parameter, and we find pointwise bounds for heat kernel, as
well as its derivatives in time, space, and the parameter. We also prove
cancellation conditions for the heat semigroup. We reduce the $n$-dimensional
case to the one-dimensional case, and the estimates in one-dimensional case are
achieved by Duhamel's principle and commutator properties of the operators. As
an application, we recover estimates of heat kernels on polynomial models in
$C^2$.
  Motivated by a proposal to create an optical helix-shaped waveguides for cold
atoms and molecules, we discuss local perturbations which can create bound
states in such a setting. This is known about a local slowdown of the twist; we
show that a similar effect can result from a local tube protrusion or a change
of the helix radius in correlation with its pitch angle.
  We give explicit formulas for maps in a long exact sequence connecting
bialgebra cohomology to Hochschild cohomology. We give a sufficient condition
for the connecting homomorphism to be surjective. We apply these results to
compute all bialgebra two-cocycles of certain Radford biproducts
(bosonizations). These two-cocycles are precisely those associated to the
finite dimensional pointed Hopf algebras in the recent classification of
Andruskiewitsch and Schneider, in an interpretation of these Hopf algebras as
graded bialgebra deformations of Radford biproducts.
  We consider a circulation system arising in turbulence modelling in fluid
dynamics with unbounded eddy viscosities. Various notions of weak solutions are
considered and compared. We establish existence and regularity results. In
particular we study the boundedness of weak solutions. We also establish an
existence result for a classical solution
  We study holonomy representations admitting a pair of supplementary faithful
sub-representations. In particular the cases where the sub-representations are
isomorphic respectively dual to each other are treated. In each case we have a
closer look at the classification in small dimension.
  We examine the lattice generated by two pairs of supplementary vector
subspaces of a finite-dimensional vector space by intersection and sum, with
the aim of applying the results to the study of representations admitting two
pairs of supplementary invariant spaces, or one pair and a reflexive form. We
show that such a representation is a direct sum of three canonical
sub-representations which we characterize. We then focus on holonomy
representations with the same property.
  A wireless network in which packets are broadcast to a group of receivers
through use of a random access protocol is considered in this work. The
relation to previous work on networks of interacting queues is discussed and
subsequently, the stability and throughput regions of the system are analyzed
and presented. A simple network of two source nodes and two destination nodes
is considered first. The broadcast service process is analyzed assuming a
channel that allows for packet capture and multipacket reception. In this small
network, the stability and throughput regions are observed to coincide. The
same problem for a network with N sources and M destinations is considered
next. The channel model is simplified in that multipacket reception is no
longer permitted. Bounds on the stability region are developed using the
concept of stability rank and the throughput region of the system is compared
to the bounds. Our results show that as the number of destination nodes
increases, the stability and throughput regions diminish. Additionally, a
previous conjecture that the stability and throughput regions coincide for a
network of arbitrarily many sources is supported for a broadcast scenario by
the results presented in this work.
  A discrete tensegrity framework can be thought of as a graph in Euclidean
n-space where each edge is of one of three types: an edge with a fixed length
(bar) or an edge with an upper (cable) or lower (strut) bound on its length.
Roth and Whiteley, in their 1981 paper "Tensegrity Frameworks", showed that in
certain cases, the struts and cables can be replaced with bars when analyzing
the framework for infinitesimal rigidity. In that case we call the tensegrity
"bar equivalent". In specific, they showed that if there exists a set of
positive weights, called a positive "stress", on the edges such that the
weighted sum of the edge vectors is zero at every vertex, then the tensegrity
is bar equivalent.
  In this paper we consider an extended version of the tensegrity framework in
which the vertex set is a (possibly infinite) set of points in Euclidean
n-space and the edgeset is a compact set of unordered pairs of vertices. These
are called "continuous tensegrities". We show that if a continuous tensegrity
has a strictly positive stress, it is bar equivalent and that it has a
semipositive stress if and only if it is partially bar equivalent. We also show
that if a tensegrity is minimally bar equivalent (it is bar equivalent but
removing any open set of edges makes it no longer so), then it has a strictly
positive stress.
  In particular, we examine the case where the vertices form a rectifiable
curve and the possible motions of the curve are limited to local isometries of
it. Our methods provide an attractive proof of the following result: There is
no locally arclength preserving motion of a circle that increases any antipodal
distance without decreasing some other one.
  This paper studies a variant of the classical problem of ``writing on dirty
paper'' in which the sum of the input and the interference, or dirt, is
multiplied by a random variable that models resizing, known to the decoder but
not to the encoder. The achievable rate of Costa's dirty paper coding (DPC)
scheme is calculated and compared to the case of the decoder's also knowing the
dirt. In the ergodic case, the corresponding rate loss vanishes asymptotically
in the limits of both high and low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), and is small at
all finite SNR for typical distributions like Rayleigh, Rician, and Nakagami.
In the quasi-static case, the DPC scheme is lossless at all SNR in terms of
outage probability. Quasi-static fading broadcast channels (BC) without
transmit channel state information (CSI) are investigated as an application of
the robustness properties. It is shown that the DPC scheme leads to an outage
achievable rate region that strictly dominates that of time division.
  We prove that a random function in the Hardy space $H^2$ is a non-cyclic
vector for the backward shift operator almost surely. The question of existence
of a local pseudocontinuation for a random analytic function is also studied.
  Our talk at Lisbon SAMP conference was based mainly on our recent results
(published in Comm. Math. Phys.) on small diameter asymptotics for solutions of
the Helmgoltz equation in networks of thin fibers. The present paper contains a
detailed review of these results under some assumptions which make them much
more transparent. It also contains several new theorems on the structure of the
spectrum near the threshold. small diameter asymptotics of the resolvent, and
solutions of the evolution equation.
  In his study of amenable unitary representations, M. E. B. Bekka asked if
there is an analogue for such representations of the remarkable fixed-point
property for amenable groups. In this paper, we prove such a fixed-point
theorem in the more general context of a $G$-amenable von Neumann algebra $M$,
where $G$ is a locally compact group acting on $M$. The F{\o}lner conditions of
Connes and Bekka are extended to the case where $M$ is semifinite and admits a
faithful, semifinite, normal trace which is invariant under the action of $G$.
  The paper constructs the analytic index for an elliptic pseudodifferential
family of $L^{m}_{\rho,\de}$-operators invariant under the proper action of a
continuous family groupoid on a $G$-compact, $C^{\infty,0}$ $G$-space.
  Many index theorems (both classical and in noncommutative geometry) can be
interpreted in terms of a Lie groupoid acting properly on a manifold and
leaving an elliptic family of pseudodifferential operators invariant. Alain
Connes in his book raised the question of an index theorem in this general
context. In this paper, an analytic index for many such situations is
constructed. The approach is inspired by the classical families theorem of
Atiyah and Singer, and the proof generalizes, to the case of proper Lie
groupoid actions, some of the results proved for proper locally compact group
actions by N. C. Phillips.
  We introduce and investigate using Hilbert modules the properties of the {\em
Fourier algebra} $A(G)$ for a locally compact groupoid $G$. We establish a
duality theorem for such groupoids in terms of multiplicative module maps. This
includes as a special case the classical duality theorem for locally compact
groups proved by P. Eymard.
  In this paper, we define and investigate the properties of continuous family
groupoids. This class of groupoids is necessary for investigating the groupoid
index theory arising from the equivariant Atiyah-Singer index theorem for
families, and is also required in noncommutative geometry. The class includes
that of Lie groupoids, and the paper shows that, like Lie groupoids, continuous
family groupoids always admit (an essentially unique) continuous left Haar
system of smooth measures. We also show that the action of a continuous family
groupoid $G$ on a continuous family $G$-space fibered over another continuous
family $G$-space $Y$ can always be regarded as an action of the continuous
family groupoid $G*Y$ on an ordinary $G*Y$-space.
  The path spaces of a directed graph play an important role in the study of
graph $\css$. These are topological spaces that were originally constructed
using groupoid and inverse semigroup techniques. In this paper, we develop a
simple, purely topological, approach to this construction, based on Tychonoff's
theorem. In fact, the approach is shown to work even for higher dimensional
graphs satisfying the finitely aligned condition, and we construct the groupoid
of the graph. Motivated by these path space results, we prove a Tychonoff
theorem for an infinite, countable product of locally compact spaces. The main
idea is to include certain finite products of the spaces along with the
infinite product. We show that the topology is, in a reasonable sense, a
pointwise topology.
  It has been shown recently by Kapustin and Tomasiello that the mathematical
notion of Hamiltonian actions on twisted generalized K\"ahler manifolds is in
perfect agreement with the physical notion of general $(2,2)$ gauged sigma
models with three-form fluxes. In this article, we study the twisted
equivariant cohomology theory of Hamiltonian actions on $H$-twisted generalized
complex manifolds. If the manifold satisfies the
$\bar{\partial}\partial$-lemma, we establish the equivariant formality theorem.
If in addition, the manifold satisfies the generalized K\"ahler condition, we
prove the Kirwan injectivity in this setting. We then consider the Hamiltonian
action of a torus on an $H$-twisted generalized Calabi-Yau manifold and extend
to this case the Duistermaat-Heckman theorem for the push-forward measure.
  As a side result, we show in this paper that the generalized K\"ahler
quotient of a generalized K\"ahler vector space can never have a
(cohomologically) non-trivial twisting. This gives a negative answer to a
question asked by physicists whether one can construct $(2,2)$ gauged linear
sigma models with non-trivial fluxes.
  We consider the question of approximating any real number $\alpha$ by sums of
$n$ rational numbers $\frac{a_1}{q_1} + \frac{a_2}{q_2} + ... +
\frac{a_n}{q_n}$ with denominators $1 \leq q_1, q_2, ..., q_n \leq N$. This
leads to an inquiry on approximating a real number by rational numbers with a
prescribed number of prime factors in the denominator.
  This work considers the problem of transmitting multiple compressible sources
over a network at minimum cost. The aim is to find the optimal rates at which
the sources should be compressed and the network flows using which they should
be transmitted so that the cost of the transmission is minimal. We consider
networks with capacity constraints and linear cost functions. The problem is
complicated by the fact that the description of the feasible rate region of
distributed source coding problems typically has a number of constraints that
is exponential in the number of sources. This renders general purpose solvers
inefficient. We present a framework in which these problems can be solved
efficiently by exploiting the structure of the feasible rate regions coupled
with dual decomposition and optimization techniques such as the subgradient
method and the proximal bundle method.
  Let $M^2$ be an oriented 2-manifold and $f:M^2\to R^3$ a $C^\infty$-map. A
point $p\in M^2$ is called a singular point if $f$ is not an immersion at $p$.
The map $f$ is called a front (or wave front), if there exists a unit
$C^\infty$-vector field $\nu$ such that the image of each tangent vector
$df(X)$ $(X\in TM^2)$ is perpendicular to $\nu$, and the pair $(f,\nu)$ gives
an immersion into $R^3\times S^2$. In our previous paper, we gave an intrinsic
formulation of wave fronts in $R^3$. In this paper, we shall investigate the
behavior of cuspidal edges near corank one singular points and establish
Gauss-Bonnet-type formulas under the intrinsic formulation.
  We consider a list decoding algorithm recently proposed by Pellikaan-Wu
\cite{PW2005} for $q$-ary Reed-Muller codes $\mathcal{RM}_q(\ell, m, n)$ of
length $n \leq q^m$ when $\ell \leq q$. A simple and easily accessible
correctness proof is given which shows that this algorithm achieves a relative
error-correction radius of $\tau \leq (1 - \sqrt{{\ell q^{m-1}}/{n}})$. This is
an improvement over the proof using one-point Algebraic-Geometric codes given
in \cite{PW2005}. The described algorithm can be adapted to decode
Product-Reed-Solomon codes.
  We then propose a new low complexity recursive algebraic decoding algorithm
for Reed-Muller and Product-Reed-Solomon codes. Our algorithm achieves a
relative error correction radius of $\tau \leq \prod_{i=1}^m (1 -
\sqrt{k_i/q})$. This technique is then proved to outperform the Pellikaan-Wu
method in both complexity and error correction radius over a wide range of code
rates.
  The generating function and an explicit expression is derived for the
(colored) Motzkin numbers of higher rank introduced recently. Considering the
special case of rank one yields the corresponding results for the conventional
colored Motzkin numbers for which in addition a recursion relation is given.
  In the preceding paper, we formulated a conjecture on the relations between
certain classes of irreducible representations of affine Hecke algebras of type
B and symmetric crystals for $\gl_\infty$. In the present paper, we prove the
existence of the symmetric crystal and the global basis for $\gl_\infty$.
  The theory of acoustic wave scattering by many small bodies is developed for
bodies with impedance boundary condition. It is shown that if one embeds many
small particles in a bounded domain, filled with a known material, then one can
create a new material with the properties very different from the properties of
the original material. Moreover, these very different properties occur although
the total volume of the embedded small particles is negligible compared with
the volume of the original material.
  Let $K$ be a totally real number field with Galois closure $L$. We prove that
if $f \in \mathbb Q[x_1,...,x_n]$ is a sum of $m$ squares in $K[x_1,...,x_n]$,
then $f$ is a sum of \[4m \cdot 2^{[L: \mathbb Q]+1} {[L: \mathbb Q] +1 \choose
2}\] squares in $\mathbb Q[x_1,...,x_n]$. Moreover, our argument is
constructive and generalizes to the case of commutative $K$-algebras. This
result gives a partial resolution to a question of Sturmfels on the algebraic
degree of certain semidefinite programing problems.
  We calculate crossing probabilities and one-sided last exit time densities
for a class of moving barriers on an interval $[0,T]$ via Schwartz
distributions. We derive crossing probabilities and first hitting time
densities for another class of barriers on $[0,T]$ by proving a Schwartz
distribution version of the method of images. Analytic expressions for crossing
probabilities and related densities are given for new explicit and
semi-explicit barriers.
  We find sharp bounds for the norm inequality on a Pseudo-hermitian manifold,
where the L^2 norm of all second derivatives of the function involving
horizontal derivatives is controlled by the L^2 norm of the sub-Laplacian.
Perturbation allows us to get a-priori bounds for solutions to sub-elliptic PDE
in non-divergence form with bounded measurable coefficients. The method of
proof is through a Bochner technique. The Heisenberg group is seen to be en
extremal manifold for our inequality in the class of manifolds whose Ricci
curvature is non-negative.
  We prove an analogue of Gutzmer's formula for Hermite expansions. As a
consequence we obtain a new proof of a characterisation of the image of $
L^2(\R^n) $ under the Hermite semigroup. We also obtain some new orthogonality
relations for complexified Hermite functions.
  We prove the Kirillov-Reshetikhin (KR) conjecture in the general case : for
all twisted quantum affine algebras we prove that the characters of KR modules
solve the twisted Q-system and we get explicit formulas for the character of
their tensor products (the untwisted simply-laced case was treated by Najakima,
and the untwisted case by the author). The proof is uniform and provides
several new developments for the representation theory of twisted quantum
affine algebras, including twisted Frenkel-Reshetikhin q-characters (expected
by Frenkel-Reshetikhin and Frenkel-Mukhin). We also prove the twisted T-system.
As an application we get explicit formulas for the twisted q-characters of
fundamental representations for all types, including the formulas for types
D_4^{(3)}, E_6^{(2)} conjectured by Reshetikhin. We prove the formulas for KR
modules in types A_n^{(2)} and D_4^{(3)} conjectured by Kuniba-Suzuki.
Eventually our results imply the conjectural branching rules [HKOTT] to the
quantum subalgebra of finite type.
  In wireless ad hoc networks, distributed nodes can collaboratively form an
antenna array for long-distance communications to achieve high energy
efficiency. In recent work, Ochiai, et al., have shown that such collaborative
beamforming can achieve a statistically nice beampattern with a narrow main
lobe and low sidelobes. However, the process of collaboration introduces
significant delay, since all collaborating nodes need access to the same
information. In this paper, a technique that significantly reduces the
collaboration overhead is proposed. It consists of two phases. In the first
phase, nodes transmit locally in a random access fashion. Collisions, when they
occur, are viewed as linear mixtures of the collided packets. In the second
phase, a set of cooperating nodes acts as a distributed antenna system and
beamform the received analog waveform to one or more faraway destinations. This
step requires multiplication of the received analog waveform by a complex
number, which is independently computed by each cooperating node, and which
enables separation of the collided packets based on their final destination.
The scheme requires that each node has global knowledge of the network
coordinates. The proposed scheme can achieve high throughput, which in certain
cases exceeds one.
  A discrete Laplace transform and its inversion formula are obtained by using
a quadrature of the continuous Fourier transform which is given in terms of
Hermite polynomials and its zeros. This approach yields a convergent discrete
formula for the two-sided Laplace transform if the function to be transformed
falls off rapidly to zero and satisfy certain conditions of integrability,
achieving convergence also for singular functions. The inversion formula
becomes a quadrature formula for the Bromwich integral. This procedure also
yields a quadrature formula for the Mellin transform and its corresponding
inversion formula that can be generalized straightforwardly for functions of
several variables.
  We prove a Kahane-Khinchin type result with a few random vectors, which are
distributed independently with respect to an arbitrary log-concave probability
measure on $\R^n$. This is an application of small ball estimate and Chernoff's
method, that has been recently used in the context of Asymptotic Geometric
Analysis in [1], [2].
  Suppose that an automorphism group $G$ acts flag-transitively on a finite
generalized hexagon or octagon $\cS$, and suppose that the action on both the
point and line set is primitive. We show that $G$ is an almost simple group of
Lie type, that is, the socle of $G$ is a simple Chevalley group.
  We show that there can be no finite list of conditional independence
relations which can be used to deduce all conditional independence implications
among Gaussian random variables. To do this, we construct, for each $n> 3$ a
family of $n$ conditional independence statements on $n$ random variables which
together imply that $X_1 \ind X_2$, and such that no subset have this same
implication. The proof relies on binomial primary decomposition.
  In this paper we construct and study the actions of certain deformations of
the Lie algebra of Hamiltonians on the plane on the Chow groups (resp.,
cohomology) of the relative symmetric powers ${\cal C}^{[\bullet]}$ and the
relative Jacobian ${\cal J}$ of a family of curves ${\cal C}/S$. As one of the
applications, we show that in the case of a single curve $C$ this action
induces a integral form of a Lefschetz $\operatorname{sl}_2$-action on the Chow
groups of $C^{[N]}$. Another application gives a new grading on the ring of
0-cycles on the Jacobian $J$ of $C$ (with respect to the Pontryagin product)
and equips it with an action of the Lie algebra of vector fields on the line.
We also define the groups of tautological classes in $CH^*({\cal
C}^{[\bullet]})$ and in $CH^*({\cal J})$ and prove for them analogs of the
properties established in the case of the Jacobian of a single curve by
Beauville in math.AG/0204188. We also show that the our algebras of operators
preserve the subrings of tautological cycles and act on them via some explicit
differential operators.
  We prove that if $K$ is a compact subset of an affine variety O = P^n - D
(where D is a projective hypersuface), and if K is a compact subset of a closed
analytic subvariety V \subset O, then the projective hull K^ of K has the
property that K^ \cap O is contained in V. If V is smooth and 1-dimensional,
then K^ \cap O is also closed in O. The result has applications to graphs in
C^2 of functions in the disk algebra.
  These are the notes for a set of lectures delivered by the two authors at the
Les Houches Summer School on `Complex Systems' in July 2006. They provide an
introduction to the basic concepts in modern (probabilistic) coding theory,
highlighting connections with statistical mechanics. We also stress common
concepts with other disciplines dealing with similar problems that can be
generically referred to as `large graphical models'.
  While most of the lectures are devoted to the classical channel coding
problem over simple memoryless channels, we present a discussion of more
complex channel models. We conclude with an overview of the main open
challenges in the field.
  In this note, we will do analysis of accessible singular points for a
polynomial Hamiltonian system obtained by taking a double covering of the
Painlev\'e I equation. We will show that this system passes the Painlev\'e
$\alpha$-test for all accessible singular points $P_i \ (i=1,2,3)$. We note its
holomorphy condition of the first Painlev\'e system.
  We find and study a two-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e II systems in
dimension four with affine Weyl group symmetry of several types. Moreover, we
find a three-parameter family of polynomial Hamiltonian systems in two
variables $t,s$. Setting $s=0$, we can obtain an autonomous version of the
coupled Painlev\'e II systems. We also show its symmetry and holomorphy
conditions.
  We analyze complexity of financial (and general economic) processes by
comparing classical and quantum-like models for randomness. Our analysis
implies that it might be that a quantum-like probabilistic description is more
natural for financial market than the classical one. A part of our analysis is
devoted to study the possibility of application of the quantum probabilistic
model to agents of financial market. We show that, although the direct quantum
(physical) reduction (based on using the scales of quantum mechanics) is
meaningless, one may apply so called quantum-like models. In our approach
quantum-like probabilistic behaviour is a consequence of contextualy of
statistical data in finances (and economics in general). However, our
hypothesis on "quantumness" of financial data should be tested experimentally
(as opposed to the conventional description based on the noncontextual
classical probabilistic approach). We present a new statistical test based on a
generalization of the well known in quantum physics Bell's inequality.
  Let $H$ and $H'$ be two ample line bundles over a nonsingular projective
surface $X$, and $M(H)$ (resp. $M(H')$) the coarse moduli scheme of
$H$-semistable (resp. $H'$-semistable) sheaves of fixed type $(r=2,c_1,c_2)$.
In a moduli-theoretic way that comes from elementary transforms, we connect
$M(H)$ and $M(H')$ by a sequence of blowing-ups when walls separating $H$ and
$H'$ are not necessarily good. As an application, we also consider the
polarization change problem of Donaldson polynomials.
  In this paper we study random induced subgraphs of the binary $n$-cube,
$Q_2^n$. This random graph is obtained by selecting each $Q_2^n$-vertex with
independent probability $\lambda_n$. Using a novel construction of
subcomponents we study the largest component for
$\lambda_n=\frac{1+\chi_n}{n}$, where $\epsilon\ge \chi_n\ge n^{-{1/3}+
\delta}$, $\delta>0$. We prove that there exists a.s. a unique largest
component $C_n^{(1)}$. We furthermore show that $\chi_n=\epsilon$, $|
C_n^{(1)}|\sim \alpha(\epsilon) \frac{1+\chi_n}{n} 2^n$ and for $o(1)=\chi_n\ge
n^{-{1/3}+\delta}$, $| C_n^{(1)}| \sim 2 \chi_n \frac{1+\chi_n}{n} 2^n$ holds.
This improves the result of \cite{Bollobas:91} where constant $\chi_n=\chi$ is
considered. In particular, in case of $\lambda_n=\frac{1+\epsilon} {n}$, our
analysis implies that a.s. a unique giant component exists.
  We study some Hamiltonian structures of the Garnier system in two variables
from the viewpoints of its symmetry and holomorphy properties. We also give a
generalization of {\it Okamoto transformation \it}of the sixth Painlev\'e
system.
  Let $H$ and $H'$ be two ample line bundles over a smooth projective surface
$X$, and $M(H)$ (resp. $M(H')$) the coarse moduli scheme of $H$-semistable
(resp. $H'$-semistable) sheaves of fixed type $(r,c_1,c_2)$. We construct a
sequence of blowing-ups which describes how $M(H)$ differs from $M(H')$ not
only when $r=2$ but also when $r$ is arbitrary. Means we here utilize are
elementary transforms and the notion of a sheaf with flag.
  Let $\Omega$ be a smooth real analytic submanifold of a complex manifold $X$.
We establish and study the link between the following 3 subjects: 1)
topological properties of smooth families of attached analytic discs, the
manifold $\Omega$ admits, 2) lower bounds for dimensions of complex tangent
spaces of $\Omega$, 3) a generalization of the argument principle for smooth
families of holomorphic mappings from the standard complex disc to $X$.
  In particular, we obtain characterization of complex manifolds and their
boundaries in terms of attached analytic discs. The special case when $\Omega$
is the graph, leads to new characterizations of holomorphic and $CR$ functions,
and in particular, to solutions of some open problems about such functions.
  We find and study a six-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e III systems in
dimension six with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_6^{(1)}$. We also find
and study its degenerate systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of types
$B_5^{(1)}$ and $D_5^{(2)}$.
  We show that the characters of all highest weight modules over an affine Lie
algebra with the highest weight away from the critical hyperplane are
meromorphic functions in the positive half of Cartan subalgebra, their
singularities being at most simple poles at zeros of real roots. We obtain some
information about these singularities.
  We derive explicit expressions for Green functions and some related
characteristics of the Rashba and Dresselhaus Hamiltonians with a uniform
magnetic field.
  In this note, we consider generalizations of the asymptotic Hopf invariant,
or helicity, for Hamiltonian systems with one-and-a-half degrees of freedom and
symplectic diffeomorphisms of a two-disk to itself.
  Higher nilpotent analogues of the $A-\infty$-structure are explicitly defined
on arbitrary simplicial complexes, generalizing explicit construction of
/hep-th/0704.2609. These structures are associated with the higher nilpotent
differential $d_n$, satisfying $d_n^n =0$, which is naturally defined on
triangulated manifolds (tetrahedral lattices). The deformation $D_n = (I +
\epsilon_n) d_n (I + \epsilon_n)^{-1}$ is defined with the help of the
$n$-versions of discrete exterior product $\wedge_n$ and the $K_n$-operator.
  We present a comparison of the service disciplines in real-time queueing
systems (the customers have a deadline before which they should enter the
service booth). We state that giving priority to customers having an early
deadline minimizes the average stationary lateness. We show this result by
comparing adequate random vectors with the Schur-Convex majorization ordering.
  In contrast to the Euler-Poincar{\'e} reduction of geodesic flows of left- or
right-invariant metrics on Lie groups to the corresponding Lie algebra (or its
dual), one can consider the reduction of the geodesic flows to the group
itself. The reduced vector field has a remarkable hydrodynamic interpretation:
it is a velocity field for a stationary flow of an ideal fluid. Right- or
left-invariant symmetry fields of the reduced field define vortex manifolds for
such flows.
  Consider now a mechanical system, whose configuration space is a Lie group
and whose Lagrangian is invariant to left translations on that group, and
assume that the mass geometry of the system may change under the action of
internal control forces. Such system can also be reduced to the Lie group. With
no controls, this mechanical system describes a geodesic flow of the
left-invariant metric, given by the Lagrangian, and thus its reduced flow is a
stationary ideal fluid flow on the Lie group. The standard control problem for
such system is to find the conditions, under which the system can be brought
from any initial position in the configuration space to another preassigned
position by changing its mass geometry. We show that under these conditions, by
changing the mass geometry, one can also bring one vortex manifold to any other
preassigned vortex manifold.
  We discuss examples of non-commutative spaces over non-archimedean fields.
Those include non-commutative and quantum affinoid algebras, quantized K3
surfaces and quantized locally analytic p-adic groups.
  In this paper we extend the notions of Schwartz functions, tempered functions
and generalized Schwartz functions to Nash (i.e. smooth semi-algebraic)
manifolds. We reprove for this case classically known properties of Schwartz
functions on $R^n$ and build some additional tools which are important in
representation theory.
  We construct a 2-generated 2-related group without non-trivial finite
factors. That answers a question of J. Button.
  A new expression for the Green's function of a finite one-dimensional lattice
with nearest neighbor interaction is derived via discrete Fourier transform.
Solution of the Heisenberg spin chain with periodic and open boundary
conditions is considered as an example. Comparison to Bethe ansatz clarifies
the relation between the two approaches.
  This is a survey of some problems in geometric group theory which I find
interesting. The problems are from different areas of group theory. Each
section is devoted to problems in one area. It contains an introduction where I
give some necessary definitions and motivations, problems and some discussions
of them. For each problem, I try to mention the author. If the author is not
given, the problem, to the best of my knowledge, was formulated by me first.
  Weakly convex polyhedra which are star-shaped with respect to one of their
vertices are infinitesimally rigid. This is a partial answer to the question
whether every decomposable weakly convex polyhedron is infinitesimally rigid.
The proof uses a recent result of Izmestiev on the geometry of convex caps.
  We are going to study the limiting spectral measure of fixed dimensional
Hermitian block-matrices with large dimensional Wigner blocks. We are going
also to identify the limiting spectral measure when the Hermitian
block-structure is Circulant. Using the limiting spectral measure of a
Hermitian Circulant block-matrix we will show that the spectral measure of a
Wigner matrix with $k-$weakly dependent entries need not to be the semicircle
law in the limit.
  In distinction to the Neumann case the squeezing limit of a Dirichlet network
leads in the threshold region generically to a quantum graph with disconnected
edges, exceptions may come from threshold resonances. Our main point in this
paper is to show that modifying locally the geometry we can achieve in the
limit a nontrivial coupling between the edges including, in particular, the
class of $\delta$-type boundary conditions. We work out an illustration of this
claim in the simplest case when a bent waveguide is squeezed.
  We study Abelian sandpiles on graphs of the form $G \times I$, where $G$ is
an arbitrary finite connected graph, and $I \subset \Z$ is a finite interval.
We show that for any fixed $G$ with at least two vertices, the stationary
measures $\mu_I = \mu_{G \times I}$ have two extremal weak limit points as $I
\uparrow \Z$. The extremal limits are the only ergodic measures of maximum
entropy on the set of infinite recurrent configurations. We show that under any
of the limiting measures, one can add finitely many grains in such a way that
almost surely all sites topple infinitely often. We also show that the extremal
limiting measures admit a Markovian coding.
  Counter to the general notion that the regular tree is the worst case for
decay of correlation between sets and nodes, we produce an example of a
multi-spin interacting system which has uniqueness on the $d$-regular tree but
does not have uniqueness on some infinite $d$-regular graphs.
  Current techniques for generating a knowledge space, such as QUERY,
guarantees that the resulting structure is closed under union, but not that it
satisfies wellgradedness, which is one of the defining conditions for a
learning space. We give necessary and sufficient conditions on the base of a
union-closed set family that ensures that the family is well-graded. We
consider two cases, depending on whether or not the family contains the empty
set. We also provide algorithms for efficiently testing these conditions, and
for augmenting a set family in a minimal way to one that satisfies these
conditions.
  In this paper we show a local Jacquet-Langlands correspondence for all
unitary irreducible representations. We prove the global Jacquet-Langlands
correspondence in characteristic zero. As consequences we obtain the
multiplicity one and strong multiplicity one theorems for inner forms of GL(n)
as well as a classification of the residual spectrum and automorphic
representations in analogy with results proved by Moeglin-Waldspurger and
Jacquet-Shalika for GL(n).
  Recently, Bagno, Garber and Mansour studied a kind of excedance number on the
complex reflection groups and computed its multidistribution with the number of
fixed points on the set of involutions in these groups. In this note, we
consider the similar problems in more general cases and make a correction of
one result obtained by them.
  In this paper, we study a routing problem on the Gaussian multiple relay
channel, in which nodes employ a decode-and-forward coding strategy. We are
interested in routes for the information flow through the relays that achieve
the highest DF rate. We first construct an algorithm that provably finds
optimal DF routes. As the algorithm runs in factorial time in the worst case,
we propose a polynomial time heuristic algorithm that finds an optimal route
with high probability. We demonstrate that that the optimal (and near optimal)
DF routes are good in practice by simulating a distributed DF coding scheme
using low density parity check codes with puncturing and incremental
redundancy.
  Given a closed hyperbolic Riemannian surface, the aim of the present paper is
to describe an explicit construction of smooth deformations of the hyperbolic
metric into Finsler metrics that are not Riemannian and whose properties are
such that the classical Riemannian results about entropy rigidity, marked
length spectrum rigidity and boundary rigidity all fail to extend to the
Finsler category.
  We solve Bershadsky-Cecotti-Ooguri-Vafa (BCOV) holomorphic anomaly equation
to determine the higher genus Gromov-Witten invariants ($g \leq 5$) of the
derived equivalent Calabi-Yau threefolds, which are of the appropriate
codimensions in the Grassmannian Gr(2,7) and the Pfaffian Pf(7).
  During the whole of 1874, Camille Jordan and Leopold Kronecker quar- relled
vigorously over the organisation of the theory of bilinear forms. That theory
promised a "general" and "homogeneous" treatment of numerous questions arising
in various 19th-century theoretical contexts, and it hinged on two theorems,
stated independently by Jordan and Weierstrass, that would today be considered
equivalent. It was, however, the perceived difference between those two
theorems that sparked the 1874 controversy. Focusing on this quarrel allows us
to explore the algebraic identity of the polynomial practices of the
manipulations of forms in use before the advent of structural approaches to
linear algebra. The latter approaches identified these practices with methods
for the classification of similar matrices. We show that the prac- tices --
Jordan's canonical reduction and Kronecker's invariant computation -- reflect
identities inseparable from the social context of the time. Moreover, these
practices reveal not only tacit knowledge, local ways of thinking, but also --
in light of a long history tracing back to the work of Lagrange, Laplace, Cau-
chy, and Hermite -- two internal philosophies regarding the significance of
generality which are inseparable from two disciplinary ideals opposing algebra
and arithmetic. By interrogating the cultural identities of such practices,
this study aims at a deeper understanding of the history of linear algebra
without focusing on issues related to the origins of theories or structures.
  What did "algebra" mean before the development of the algebraic theories of
the 20th century ? This paper stresses the identities taken by the algebraic
practices developped during the century long discussion around the equation
around the equation of secular inequalities (1766- 1874). In 1874, a strong
controversy on the theory of bilinear and quadratic forms opposed Camille
Jordan and Leopold Kronecker. The arithmetical ideal of Kronecker faced
Jordan's claim for the simplicity of his algebraic canonical form. As the
controversy combined mathematical and historical arguments, it gave rise to the
writing of a history of the methods used by Lagrange, Laplace and Weierstrass
in a century long mathematical discussion around the "equation of secular
inequalities".
  In a 1967 paper, Zeeman proposed a new topology for Minkowski spacetime,
physically motivated but much more complicated than the standard one. Here a
detailed study is given of some properties of the Zeeman topology which had not
been considered at the time. The general setting refers to Minkowski spacetime
of any dimension k+1. In the special case k=1, a full characterization is
obtained for the compact subsets of spacetime; moreover, the first homotopy
group is shown to be nontrivial.
  For each integer $n\ge 2$, we demonstrate that a 2n-dimensional generalized
MICZ-Kepler problem has an $\widetilde{\mr{Spin}}(2, 2n+1)$ dynamical symmetry
which extends the manifest $\mr{Spin}(2n)$ symmetry. The Hilbert space of bound
states is shown to form a unitary highest weight $\widetilde{\mr{Spin}}(2,
2n+1)$-module which occurs at the first reduction point in the
Enright-Howe-Wallach classification diagram for the unitary highest weight
modules. As a byproduct, we get a simple geometric realization for such a
unitary highest weight $\widetilde{\mr{Spin}}(2, 2n+1)$-module.
  Let $x$ be a cyclic sequence of $n$ elements of the finite field
$\mathbb{F}_q$ (the first element immediately follows the $n$-th one). Let us
define the operation $\Delta$ as the transition from $x$ to the sequence of
differences of the neighbouring elements from $x$. The aim of this work is to
give graphs of the dynamic system $\Delta$ for $q=2$, $n\le 300$ and $q=3$,
$n\le 150$. These results enable us to define more precisely the Arnold
hypotheses and to prove them.
  We describe the positive cone and the pseudo-effective cone of a
non-K\"ahlerian surface. We use these results for two types of applications:
  - Describe the set $\sigma(X)$ of possible total Ricci scalars associated
with Gauduchon metrics of fixed volume 1 on a fixed non-K\"ahhlerian surface,
and decide whether the assignment $X\mapsto\sigma(X)$ is a deformation
invariant.
  - Study the stability of the canonical extension
  $$0\to {\cal K}_X\to {\cal A}\to{\cal O}_X\to 0$$ of a class VII surface $X$
with positive $b_2$. This extension plays an important role in our strategy to
prove the GSS conjecture using gauge theoretical methods.
  In this paper we obtain the weak type (1,1) boundedness of Calderon-Zygmund
operators acting over operator-valued functions. Our main tools for its
solution are a noncommutative form of Calderon-Zygmund decomposition in
conjunction with a pseudo-localization principle for singular integrals, which
is new even in the classical setting and of independent interest. Perhaps
because of the hidden role of pseudo-localization and almost orthogonality,
this problem has remained open for quite some time. We also consider
Calderon-Zygmund operators associated to certain operator-valued kernels.
  We construct a 2-variable link polynomial, called $W_L$, for classical links
by considering simultaneously the Kauffman state models for the Alexander and
for the Jones polynomials. We conjecture that this polynomial is the product of
two 1-variable polynomials, one of which is the Alexander polynomial.
  We refine $W_L$ to an ordered set of 3-variable polynomials for those links
in 3-space which contain a Hopf link as a sublink.
  It is shown that a locally geometrical structure of arbitrarily curved
Riemannian space is defined by a deformed group of its diffeomorphisms
  Motivated by the ongoing discussion about a seeming asymmetry in the
performance of fermionic and bosonic replicas, we present an exact,
nonperturbative approach to zero-dimensional replica field theories belonging
to the broadly interpreted "beta=2" Dyson symmetry class. We then utilise the
formalism developed to demonstrate that the bosonic replicas do correctly
reproduce the microscopic spectral density in the QCD inspired chiral Gaussian
unitary ensemble. This disproves the myth that the bosonic replica field
theories are intrinsically faulty.
  Let $UC(K)$ denote the Banach space of all bounded uniformly continuous
functions on a hypergroup $K$. The main results of this article concern on the
$\alpha$-amenability of $UC(K)$ and quotients and products of hypergroups. It
is also shown that a Sturm-Liouville hypergroup with a positive index is
$\alpha$-amenable if and only if $\alpha=1$.
  We prove John Hubbard's conjecture on the topological complexity of the
hyperbolic horseshoe locus of the complex H\'enon map. Indeed, we show that
there exist several non-trivial loops in the locus which generate infinitely
many mutually different monodromies. Our main tool is a rigorous computational
algorithm for verifying the uniform hyperbolicity of chain recurrent sets. In
addition, we show that the dynamics of the real H\'enon map is completely
determined by the monodromy of a certain loop, providing the parameter of the
map is contained in the hyperbolic horseshoe locus of the complex H\'enon map.
  We show that finite parallel transports of vectors in Riemannian spaces,
determined by the multiplication law in the deformed groups of diffeomorphisms,
and sequences of infinitesimal parallel transports of vectors along geodesics
are equivalent.
  We study the asymptotic scaling of the entanglement of a block of spins for
the ground state of the one-dimensional quantum Ising model with transverse
field. When the field is sufficiently strong, the entanglement grows at most
logarithmically in the number of spins. The proof utilises a transformation to
a model of classical probability called the continuum random-cluster model, and
is based on a property of the latter model termed ratio weak-mixing. Our proof
applies equally to a large class of disordered interactions.
  We study a relaxed formulation of the quasistatic evolution problem in the
context of small strain associative elastoplasticity with softening. The
relaxation takes place in spaces of generalized Young measures. The notion of
solution is characterized by the following properties: global stability at each
time and energy balance on each time interval. An example developed in detail
compares the solutions obtained by this method with the ones provided by a
vanishing viscosity approximation, and shows that only the latter capture a
decreasing branch in the stress-strain response.
  We study the geometric quantization process for twisted Poisson manifolds.
First, we introduce the notion of Lichnerowicz-twisted Poisson cohomology for
twisted Poisson manifolds and we use it in order to characterize their
prequantization bundles and to establish their prequantization condition. Next,
we introduce a polarization and we discuss the quantization problem. In each
step, several examples are presented.
  The concept of (a,b)-module comes from the study the Gauss-Manin lattices of
an isolated singularity of a germ of an holomorphic function. It is a very
simple ''abstract algebraic structure'', but very rich, whose prototype is the
formal completion of the Brieskorn-module of an isolated singularity. The aim
of this article is to prove a very basic theorem on regular (a,b)-modules
showing that a given regular (a,b)-module is completely characterized by some
''finite order jet'' of its structure. Moreover a very simple bound for such a
sufficient order is given in term of the rank and of two very simple invariants
: the regularity order which count the number of times you need to apply \
$b^{-1}.a \simeq \partial_z.z$ in order to reach a simple pole (a,b)-module.
The second invariant is the ''width'' which corresponds, in the simple pole
case, to the maximal integral difference between to eigenvalues of $b^{-1}.a$
  (the logarithm of the monodromy). In the computation of examples this theorem
is quite helpfull because it tells you at which power of $b$ in the expansions
you may stop without loosing any information.
  The Cauchy problem for the derivative nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation with
periodic boundary condition is considered. Local well-posedness for periodic
initial data u_0 in the space ^H^s_r, defined by the norms
||u_0||_{^H^s_r}=||<xi>^s ^u_0||_{l^r'} is shown in the parameter range s>=
1/2, 2>r>4/3. The proof is based on an adaptation of the gauge transform to the
periodic setting and an appropriate variant of the Fourier restriction norm
method.
  Inverse braid monoid describes a structure on braids where the number of
strings is not fixed. So, some strings of initial $n$ may be deleted. In the
paper we show that many properties and objects based on braid groups may be
extended to the inverse braid monoids. Namely we prove an inclusion into a
monoid of partial monomorphisms of a free group. This gives a solution of the
word problem. Another solution is obtained by an approach similar to that of
Garside. We give also the analogues of Artin presentation with two generators
and Sergiescu graph-presentations.
  Traditionally, it is understood that fluctuations in the equilibrium
distribution are not evident in thermodynamic systems of large $N$ (the number
of particles in the system) \cite{Huang1}. In this paper we examine the
validity of this perception by investigating whether such fluctuations can in
reality depend on temperature.
  Firstly, we describe fluctuations in the occupation numbers of the energy
levels for an isolated system, using previously unknown identities that we have
derived for the purpose, which allow us to calculate the moments of the
occupation numbers. Then we compute analytically the probability distribution
of these fluctuations. We show that, for every system of fixed and finite $N$,
fluctuations about the equilibrium distribution do, in fact, depend on the
temperature. Indeed, at higher temperatures the fluctuations can be so large
that the system does not fully converge on the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution
but actually fluctuates around it. We term this state, where not one macrostate
but a region of macrostates closely fit the underlying distribution, a ``{\it
fluctuating equilibrium}''. Finally, we speculate on how this finding is
applicable to networks, financial markets, and other thermodynamic-like
systems.
  We study modules over the algebroid stack $\W[\stx]$ of deformation
quantization on a complex symplectic manifold $\stx$ and recall some results:
construction of an algebra for $\star$-products, existence of (twisted) simple
modules along smooth Lagrangian submanifolds, perversity of the complex of
solutions for regular holonomic $\W[\stx]$-modules, finiteness and duality for
the composition of ``good'' kernels. As a corollary, we get that the derived
category of good $\W[\stx]$-modules with compact support is a Calabi-Yau
category. We also give a conjectural Riemann-Roch type formula in this
framework.
  Along a Ricci flow solution on a closed manifold, we show that if Ricci
curvature is uniformly bounded from below, then a scalar curvature integral
bound is enough to extend flow. Moreover, this integral bound condition is
optimal in some sense.
  In this paper non-group permutation modulated sequences for the Gaussian
channel are considered. Without the restriction to group codes rather than
subsets of group codes, arbitrary rates are achievable. The code construction
utilizes the known optimal group constellations to ensure at least the same
performance but exploit the Gray code ordering structure of multiset
permutations as a selection criterion at the decoder. The decoder achieves near
maximum likelihood performance at low computational cost and low additional
memory requirements at the receiver.
  We consider a stationary and ergodic random field {\omega(b)} parameterized
by the family of bonds b in Z^d, d>1. The random variable \omega(b) is thought
of as the conductance of bond b and it ranges in a finite interval [0,c_0].
Assuming that the set of bonds with positive conductance has a unique infinite
cluster C, we prove homogenization results for the random walk among random
conductances on C. As a byproduct, applying the general criterion of \cite{F}
leading to the hydrodynamic limit of exclusion processes with bond-dependent
transition rates, for almost all realizations of the environment we prove the
hydrodynamic limit of simple exclusion processes among random conductances on
C. The hydrodynamic equation is given by a heat equation whose diffusion matrix
does not depend on the environment. We do not require any ellipticity
condition. As special case, C can be the infinite cluster of supercritical
Bernoulli bond percolation.
  Let $H$ be a separable complex Hilbert space. Denote by ${\mathcal
G}_{\infty}(H)$ the Grassmannian consisting of closed linear subspaces with
infinite dimension and codimension. This Grassmannian is partially ordered by
the inclusion relation. We show that every continuous order preserving
bijective transformation of ${\mathcal G}_{\infty}(H)$ is induced by an
invertible bounded semi-linear operator.
  We study the dynamical behaviour of Hamiltonian flows defined on
4-dimensional compact symplectic manifolds. We find the existence of a
C2-residual set of Hamiltonians for which every regular energy surface is
either Anosov or it is in the closure of energy surfaces with zero Lyapunov
exponents a.e. This is in the spirit of the Bochi-Mane dichotomy for
area-preserving diffeomorphisms on compact surfaces and its continuous-time
version for 3-dimensional volume-preserving flows.
  We implement the Bethe anstaz method for the elliptic quantum group
$E_{\tau,\eta}(A_2^{(2)})$. The Bethe creation operators are constructed as
polynomials of the Lax matrix elements expressed through a recurrence relation.
We also give the eigenvalues of the family of commuting transfer matrices
defined in the tensor product of fundamental representations.
  We consider two-way wire-tap channels, where two users are communicating with
each other in the presence of an eavesdropper, who has access to the
communications through a multiple-access channel. We find achievable rates for
two different scenarios, the Gaussian two-way wire-tap channel, (GTW-WT), and
the binary additive two-way wire-tap channel, (BATW-WT). It is shown that the
two-way channels inherently provide a unique advantage for wire-tapped
scenarios, as the users know their own transmitted signals and in effect help
encrypt the other user's messages, similar to a one-time pad. We compare the
achievable rates to that of the Gaussian multiple-access wire-tap channel
(GMAC-WT) to illustrate this advantage.
  We introduce and investigate the basic properties of an involutory (dual)
quasi-Hopf algebra. We also study the representations of an involutory
quasi-Hopf algebra and prove that an involutory dual quasi-Hopf algebra with
non-zero integral is cosemisimple.
  In this paper we study a novel spin chain with nearest-neighbors interactions
depending on the sites coordinates, which in some sense is intermediate between
the Heisenberg chain and the spin chains of Haldane-Shastry type. We show that
when the number of spins is sufficiently large both the density of sites and
the strength of the interaction between consecutive spins follow the Gaussian
law. We develop an extension of the standard freezing trick argument that
enables us to exactly compute a certain number of eigenvalues and their
corresponding eigenfunctions. The eigenvalues thus computed are all integers,
and in fact our numerical studies evidence that these are the only integer
eigenvalues of the chain under consideration. This fact suggests that this
chain can be regarded as a finite-dimensional analog of the class of
quasi-exactly solvable Schroedinger operators, which has been extensively
studied in the last two decades. We have applied the method of moments to study
some statistical properties of the chain's spectrum, showing in particular that
the density of eigenvalues follows a Wigner-like law. Finally, we emphasize
that, unlike the original freezing trick, the extension thereof developed in
this paper can be applied to spin chains whose associated dynamical spin model
is only quasi-exactly solvable.
  We find an arc-parameterization of the contour on which an given analytic
function has constant modulus. This contour is seen to satisfy a differential
equation which we explicitly give.
  Cooperative diversity systems are wireless communication systems designed to
exploit cooperation among users to mitigate the effects of multipath fading. In
fairly general conditions, it has been shown that these systems can achieve the
diversity order of an equivalent MISO channel and, if the node geometry
permits, virtually the same outage probability can be achieved as that of the
equivalent MISO channel for a wide range of applicable SNR. However, much of
the prior analysis has been performed under the assumption of perfect timing
and frequency offset synchronization. In this paper, we derive the estimation
bounds and associated maximum likelihood estimators for frequency offset
estimation in a cooperative communication system. We show the benefit of
adaptively tuning the frequency of the relay node in order to reduce estimation
error at the destination. We also derive an efficient estimation algorithm,
based on the correlation sequence of the data, which has mean squared error
close to the Cramer-Rao Bound.
  Sequences whose terms are equal to the number of functions with specified
properties are considered. Properties are based on the notion of derangements
in a more general sense. Several sequences which generalize the standard notion
of derangements are thus obtained. These sequences generate a number of integer
sequences from the well-known Sloane's encyclopedia.
  The classical Ehresmann-Bruhat order describes the possible degenerations of
a pair of flags in a finite-dimensional vector space V; or, equivalently, the
closure of an orbit of the group GL(V) acting on the direct product of two full
flag varieties.
  We obtain a similar result for triples consisting of two subspaces and a
partial flag in V; this is equivalent to describing the closure of a
GL(V)-orbit in the product of two Grassmannians and one flag variety. We give a
rank criterion to check whether such a triple can be degenerated to another
one, and we classify the minimal degenerations. Our methods involve only
elementary linear algebra and combinatorics of graphs (originating in
Auslander-Reiten quivers).
  We provide a non-recursive description for the bounded admissible sets of
masks used by Deodhar's algorithm to calculate the Kazhdan--Lusztig polynomials
$P_{x,w}(q)$ of type $A$, in the case when $w$ is hexagon avoiding and
maximally clustered. This yields a combinatorial description of the
Kazhdan--Lusztig basis elements of the Hecke algebra associated to such
permutations $w$. The maximally-clustered hexagon-avoiding elements are
characterized by avoiding the seven classical permutation patterns $\{3421,
4312, 4321, 46718235, 46781235, 56718234, 56781234\}$. We also briefly discuss
the application of heaps to permutation pattern characterization.
  We prove that the open topological string partition function on a D-brane
configuration in a Calabi-Yau manifold X takes the form of a closed topological
string partition function on a different Calabi-Yau manifold X_b. This
identification shows that the physics of D-branes in an arbitrary background X
of topological string theory can be described either by open+closed string
theory in X or by closed string theory in X_b. The physical interpretation of
the ''bubbling'' Calabi-Yau X_b is as the space obtained by letting the
D-branes in X undergo a geometric transition. This implies, in particular, that
the partition function of closed topological string theory on certain bubbling
Calabi-Yau manifolds are invariants of knots in the three-sphere.
  We consider gradient fields $(\phi_x:x\in \mathbb{Z}^d)$ whose law takes the
Gibbs--Boltzmann form $Z^{-1}\exp\{-\sum_{< x,y>}V(\phi_y-\phi_x)\}$, where the
sum runs over nearest neighbors. We assume that the potential $V$ admits the
representation \[V(\eta):=-\log\int\varrho({d}\kappa)\exp\biggl[-{1/2}\kappa\et
a^2\biggr],\] where $\varrho$ is a positive measure with compact support in
$(0,\infty)$. Hence, the potential $V$ is symmetric, but nonconvex in general.
While for strictly convex $V$'s, the translation-invariant, ergodic gradient
Gibbs measures are completely characterized by their tilt, a nonconvex
potential as above may lead to several ergodic gradient Gibbs measures with
zero tilt. Still, every ergodic, zero-tilt gradient Gibbs measure for the
potential $V$ above scales to a Gaussian free field.
  We investigate the set $I$ of parameters $\kappa$ for which the singular
value of $z\mapsto e^z+\kappa$ converges to $\infty$. The set $I$ consists of
uncountably many parameter rays, plus landing points of some of these rays. We
show that the parameter rays have Hausdorff dimension 1, while the ray
endpoints in $I$ alone have dimension 2. Analogous results were known for
dynamical planes of exponential maps; our result shows that this also holds in
parameter space.
  Two virtual link diagrams are homotopic if one may be transformed into the
other by a sequence of virtual Reidemeister moves, classical Reidemeister
moves, and self crossing changes. We recall the pure virtual braid group. We
then describe the set of pure virtual braids that are homotopic to the identity
braid.
  In the theory of operads we consider functors of generalized symmetric powers
defined by sums of coinvariant modules under actions of symmetric groups. One
observes classically that the construction of symmetric functors provides an
isomorphism from the category of symmetric modules to a subcategory of the
category of functors on the base category. The purpose of this book is to
obtain a similar relationship for functors on a category of algebras over an
operad.
  We observe that right modules over operads, symmetric modules equipped with a
right operad action, give rise to functors on categories of algebras and we
prove that this construction yields an embedding of categories. Then we check
that right modules over operads form a model category. In addition we prove
that weak-equivalences of right modules correspond to pointwise
weak-equivalences at the functor level. As a conclusion, we obtain that right
modules over operads supply good models for the homotopy of associated functors
on algebras over operads.
  This note gives an explicit formula for the elements of the E(8) root system.
The formula is triacontagonally symmetric in that one may clearly see an action
by the cyclic group with 30 elements. The existence of such a formula is due to
the fact that the Coxeter number of E(8) is 30.
  We transcribe a portion of the theory of extensions of C*-algebras to general
operator algebras. We also include several new general facts about
approximately unital ideals in operator algebras and the C*-algebras which they
generate.
  We consider the operation of Whitehead double on a component of a link and
study the behavior of Milnor invariants under this operation. We show that this
operation turns a link whose Milnor invariants of length < k are all zero into
a link with vanishing Milnor invariants of length < 2k, and we provide formulas
for the first non-vanishing ones.
  As a consequence, we obtain statements relating the notions of link-homotopy
and self Delta-equivalence via the Whitehead double operation. By using our
result, we show that a Brunnian link L is link-homotopic to the unlink if and
only if a link L with a single component Whitehed doubled is self
Delta-equivalent to the unlink.
  This work examines the problem of sequential detection of a change in the
drift of a Brownian motion in the case of two-sided alternatives. Applications
to real life situations in which two-sided changes can occur are discussed.
Traditionally, 2-CUSUM stopping rules have been used for this problem due to
their asymptotically optimal character as the mean time between false alarms
tends to $\infty$. In particular, attention has focused on 2-CUSUM harmonic
mean rules due to the simplicity in calculating their first moments. In this
paper, we derive closed-form expressions for the first moment of a general
2-CUSUM stopping rule. We use these expressions to obtain explicit upper and
lower bounds for it. Moreover, we derive an expression for the rate of change
of this first moment as one of the threshold parameters changes. Based on these
expressions we obtain explicit upper and lower bounds to this rate of change.
Using these expressions we are able to find the best 2-CUSUM stopping rule with
respect to the extended Lorden criterion. In fact, we demonstrate not only the
existence but also the uniqueness of the best 2-CUSUM stopping both in the case
of a symmetric change and in the case of a non-symmetric case. Furthermore, we
discuss the existence of a modification of the 2-CUSUM stopping rule that has a
strictly better performance than its classical 2-CUSUM counterpart for small
values of the mean time between false alarms. We conclude with a discussion on
the open problem of strict optimality in the case of two-sided alternatives.
  This is a companion to recent papers of the authors; here we construct the
`noncommutative
  Shilov boundary' of a (possibly nonunital) selfadjoint ordered space of
Hilbert space operators. The morphisms in the universal property of the
boundary preserve order.
  As an application, we consider `maximal' and `minimal' unitizations of such
ordered operator spaces.
  We obtain a detailed classification for a class of non-simply connected
Calabi-Yau threefolds which are of potential interest for a wide range of
problems in string phenomenology. These threefolds arise as quotients of
Schoen's Calabi-Yau threefolds, which are fiber products over P1 of two
rational elliptic surfaces. The quotient is by a freely acting finite abelian
group preserving the fibrations. Our work involves a classification of
restricted finite automorphism groups of rational elliptic surfaces.
  Splitting trees are those random trees where individuals give birth at
constant rate during a lifetime with general distribution, to i.i.d. copies of
themselves. The width process of a splitting tree is then a binary, homogeneous
Crump--Mode--Jagers (CMJ) process, and is not Markovian unless the lifetime
distribution is exponential. Here, we allow the birth rate to be infinite, that
is, pairs of birth times and lifespans of newborns form a Poisson point process
along the lifetime of their mother, with possibly infinite intensity measure. A
splitting tree is a random (so-called) chronological tree. Each element of a
chronological tree is a (so-called) existence point $(v,\tau)$ of some
individual $v$ (vertex) in a discrete tree, where $\tau$ is a nonnegative real
number called chronological level (time). We introduce a total order on
existence points, called linear order, and a mapping $\varphi$ from the tree
into the real line which preserves this order. The inverse of $\varphi$ is
called the exploration process, and the projection of this inverse on
chronological levels the contour process. For splitting trees truncated up to
level $\tau$, we prove that thus defined contour process is a L\'evy process
reflected below $\tau$ and killed upon hitting 0. This allows to derive
properties of (i) splitting trees: conceptual proof of Le Gall--Le Jan's
theorem in the finite variation case, exceptional points, coalescent point
process, age distribution; (ii) CMJ processes: one-dimensional marginals,
conditionings, limit theorems, asymptotic numbers of individuals with infinite
vs finite descendances.
  This is a brief overview of the status of the theory of elliptic
hypergeometric functions to the end of 2012 written as a complementary chapter
to the Russian edition of the book by G.E. Andrews, R. Askey, and R. Roy,
Special Functions, Encycl. of Math. Appl. 71, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1999.
  Let $D\ge 1$ be an integer. In the Enright-Howe-Wallach classification list
of the unitary highest weight modules of $\widetilde{\mr{Spin}}(2, D+1)$, the
(nontrivial) Wallach representations in Case II, Case III, and the mirror of
Case III are special in the sense that they are precisely the ones that can be
realized by the Hilbert space of bound states for a generalized hydrogen atom
in dimension D. It has been shown recently that each of these special Wallach
representations can be realized as the space of L^2-sections of a canonical
hermitian bundle over the punctured ${\bb R}^D$. Here a simple algebraic
characterization of these special Wallach representations is found.
  By means of left quasigroups L=(L, .) and ternary systems, we construct
dynamical Yang-Baxter maps associated with L, L, and (.) satisfying an
invariance condition that the binary operation (.) of the left quasigroup L
defines. Conversely, this construction characterize such dynamical Yang-Baxter
maps. The unitary condition of the dynamical Yang-Baxter map is discussed.
Moreover, we establish a correspondence between two dynamical Yang-Baxter maps
constructed in this paper. This correspondence produces a version of the
vertex-IRF correspondence.
  The blow-up in finite time for the solutions to the initial-boundary value
problem associated to the multi-dimensional quantum hydrodynamic model in a
bounded domain is proved. The model consists on conservation of mass equation
and a momentum balance equation equivalent to a compressible Euler equations
corrected by a dispersion term of the third order in the momentum balance. The
proof is based on a-priori estimates for the energy functional for a new
observable constructed with an auxiliary function, and it is shown that, under
suitable boundary conditions and assumptions on the initial data, the solution
blows up after a finite time.
  We prove the existence of self-similar expanding solutions of the curvature
flow on planar networks where the initial configuration is any number of
half-lines meeting at the origin. This generalizes recent work by Schn\"urer
and Schulze which treats the case of three half-lines. There are multiple
solutions, and these are parametrized by combinatorial objects, namely Steiner
trees with respect to a complete negatively curved metric on the unit ball
which span $k$ specified points on the boundary at infinity. We also provide a
sharp formulation of the regularity of these solutions at $t=0$.
  We discuss a general combinatorial framework for operator ordering problems
by applying it to the normal ordering of the powers and exponential of the
boson number operator. The solution of the problem is given in terms of Bell
and Stirling numbers enumerating partitions of a set. This framework reveals
several inherent relations between ordering problems and combinatorial objects,
and displays the analytical background to Wick's theorem. The methodology can
be straightforwardly generalized from the simple example given herein to a wide
class of operators.
  In a recent paper Flohr, Grabow and Koehn conjectured that the characters of
the logarithmic conformal field theory c_{k,1}, of central charge
c=1-6(k-1)^2/k, admit fermionic representations labelled by the Lie algebra
D_k. In this note we provide a simple analytic proof of this conjecture.
  A new class of space time codes with high performance is presented. The code
design utilizes tailor-made permutation codes, which are known to have large
minimal distances as spherical codes. A geometric connection between spherical
and space time codes has been used to translate them into the final space time
codes. Simulations demonstrate that the performance increases with the block
lengths, a result that has been conjectured already in previous work. Further,
the connection to permutation codes allows for moderate complex en-/decoding
algorithms.
  We show that for $0<\alpha<1$ and $\theta>-\alpha$, the Poisson-Dirichlet
distribution with parameter $(\alpha, \theta)$ is the unique reversible
distribution of a rather natural fragmentation-coalescence process. This
completes earlier results in the literature for certain split and merge
transformations and the parameter $\alpha =0$.
  We prove that a customary Sturm-Liouville form of second-order $q$-difference
equation for the continuous $q$-ultraspherical polynomials $C_n(x;\beta| q)$ of
Rogers can be written in a factorized form in terms of some explicitly defined
$q$-difference operator ${\mathcal D}_x^{\beta, q}$. This reveals the fact that
the continuous $q$-ultraspherical polynomials $C_n(x;\beta| q)$ are actually
governed by the $q$-difference equation ${\mathcal D}_x^{\beta, q} C_n(x;\beta|
q)= (q^{-n/2}+\beta q^{n/2}) C_n(x;\beta| q)$, which can be regarded as a
square root of the equation, obtained from its original form.
  A new necessary minimality condition for the Mumford-Shah functional is
derived by means of second order variations. It is expressed in terms of a sign
condition for a nonlocal quadratic form on $H^1_0(\Gamma)$, $\Gamma$ being a
submanifold of the regular part of the discontinuity set of the critical point.
Two equivalent formulations are provided: one in terms of the first eigenvalue
of a suitable compact operator, the other involving a sort of nonlocal capacity
of $\Gamma$. A sufficient condition for minimality is also deduced. Finally, an
explicit example is discussed, where a complete characterization of the domains
where the second variation is nonnegative can be given.
  Superinvolutions on graded associative algebras constitute a source of Lie
and Jordan superalgebras. Graded versions of the classical Albert and
Albert-Riehm Theorems on the existence of superinvolutions are proven.
Surprisingly, the existence of superinvolutions of the first kind is a rare
phenomenon, as nontrivial central division superalgebras are never endowed with
this kind of superinvolutions.
  In the general context of complex data processing, this paper reviews a
recent practical approach to the continuous wavelet formalism on the sphere.
This formalism notably yields a correspondence principle which relates wavelets
on the plane and on the sphere. Two fast algorithms are also presented for the
analysis of signals on the sphere with steerable wavelets.
  We derive a cut-and-paste surgery formula of Seiberg--Witten invariants for
negative definite plumbed rational homology 3-spheres. It is similar to (and
motivated by) Okuma's recursion formula [arXiv:math.AG/0610464, 4.5] targeting
analytic invariants of splice quotient singularities. The two formulas combined
provide automatically a proof of the equivariant version
[arXiv:math.AG/0310084, 5.2(b)] of the `Seiberg--Witten invariant conjecture'
[arXiv:math.AG/0111298] for these singularities.
  We show that the cobordism groups of negative codimensional folds maps
contain direct sums of stable homotopy groups of Thom spaces of vector bundles
like the circle and the infinite dimensional projective space. We give
geometrical invariants which detect these direct summands.
  There is a well-known correspondence between infinite trees and ultrametric
spaces which can be interpreted as an equivalence of categories and comes from
considering the end space of the tree.
  In this equivalence, uniformly continuous maps between the end spaces are
translated to some classes of coarse maps (or even classes of metrically proper
lipschitz maps) between the trees.
  We investigate the detailed dynamics of multidimensional Hamiltonian systems
by studying the evolution of volume elements formed by unit deviation vectors
about their orbits. The behavior of these volumes is strongly influenced by the
regular or chaotic nature of the motion, the number of deviation vectors, their
linear (in)dependence and the spectrum of Lyapunov exponents. The different
time evolution of these volumes can be used to identify rapidly and efficiently
the nature of the dynamics, leading to the introduction of quantities that
clearly distinguish between chaotic behavior and quasiperiodic motion on
$N$-dimensional tori. More specifically we introduce the Generalized Alignment
Index of order $k$ (GALI$_k$) as the volume of a generalized parallelepiped,
whose edges are $k$ initially linearly independent unit deviation vectors from
the studied orbit whose magnitude is normalized to unity at every time step.
The GALI$_k$ is a generalization of the Smaller Alignment Index (SALI)
(GALI$_2$ $\propto$ SALI). However, GALI$_k$ provides significantly more
detailed information on the local dynamics, allows for a faster and clearer
distinction between order and chaos than SALI and works even in cases where the
SALI method is inconclusive.
  Motivated by the Dobrushin uniqueness theorem in statistical mechanics, we
consider the following situation: Let \alpha be a nonnegative matrix over a
finite or countably infinite index set X, and define the "cleaning operators"
\beta_h = I_{1-h} + I_h \alpha for h: X \to [0,1] (here I_f denotes the
diagonal matrix with entries f). We ask: For which "cleaning sequences" h_1,
h_2, ... do we have c \beta_{h_1} ... \beta_{h_n} \to 0 for a suitable class of
"dirt vectors" c? We show, under a modest condition on \alpha, that this occurs
whenever \sum_i h_i = \infty everywhere on X. More generally, we analyze the
cleaning of subsets \Lambda \subseteq X and the final distribution of dirt on
the complement of \Lambda. We show that when supp(h_i) \subseteq \Lambda with
\sum_i h_i = \infty everywhere on \Lambda, the operators \beta_{h_1} ...
\beta_{h_n} converge as n \to \infty to the "balayage operator" \Pi_\Lambda =
\sum_{k=0}^\infty (I_\Lambda \alpha)^k I_{\Lambda^c). These results are
obtained in two ways: by a fairly simple matrix formalism, and by a more
powerful tree formalism that corresponds to working with formal power series in
which the matrix elements of \alpha are treated as noncommuting indeterminates.
  The cosmic microwave background (CMB) is a relic radiation of the Big Bang
and as such it contains a wealth of cosmological information. Statistical
analyses of the CMB, in conjunction with other cosmological observables,
represent some of the most powerful techniques available to cosmologists for
placing strong constraints on the cosmological parameters that describe the
origin, content and evolution of the Universe. The last decade has witnessed
the introduction of wavelet analyses in cosmology and, in particular, their
application to the CMB. We review here spherical wavelet analyses of the CMB
that test the standard cosmological concordance model. The assumption that the
temperature anisotropies of the CMB are a realisation of a statistically
isotropic Gaussian random field on the sphere is questioned. Deviations from
both statistical isotropy and Gaussianity are detected in the reviewed works,
suggesting more exotic cosmological models may be required to explain our
Universe. We also review spherical wavelet analyses that independently provide
evidence for dark energy, an exotic component of our Universe of which we know
very little currently. The effectiveness of accounting correctly for the
geometry of the sphere in the wavelet analysis of full-sky CMB data is
demonstrated by the highly significant detections of physical processes and
effects that are made in these reviewed works.
  Self-rational maps of generic algebraic K3 surfaces are conjectured to be
trivial. We relate this conjecture to a conjecture concerning the
irreducibility of the universal Severi varieties parametrizing nodal curves of
given genus and degree lying on some K3 surface. We also establish a number of
numerical constraints satisfied by such non trivial rational maps, that is of
topological degree >1.
  The family hyperbolic metric for the plumbing variety $\{zw=t\}$ and the non
holomorphic Eisenstein series $E(\zeta;2)$ are combined to provide an explicit
expansion for the hyperbolic metrics for degenerating families of Riemann
surfaces. Applications include an asymptotic expansion for the Weil-Petersson
metric and a local form of symplectic reduction.
  We discuss a phase transition of the second order taking place in non-local
1D Ising chains generated by specific infinite soliton solutions of the KdV and
BKP equations.
  We analyse and compare the complexity of several algorithms for computing
modular polynomials. We show that an algorithm relying on floating point
evaluation of modular functions and on interpolation, which has received little
attention in the literature, has a complexity that is essentially (up to
logarithmic factors) linear in the size of the computed polynomials. In
particular, it obtains the classical modular polynomials $\Phi_\ell$ of prime
level $\ell$ in time O (\ell^3 \log^4 \ell \log \log \ell). Besides treating
modular polynomials for $\Gamma^0 (\ell)$, which are an important ingredient in
many algorithms dealing with isogenies of elliptic curves, the algorithm is
easily adapted to more general situations. Composite levels are handled just as
easily as prime levels, as well as polynomials between a modular function and
its transform of prime level, such as the Schl\"afli polynomials and their
generalisations. Our distributed implementation of the algorithm confirms the
theoretical analysis by computing modular equations of record level around
10000 in less than two weeks on ten processors.
  The source of these notes is a series of lectures given at the CIMPA's summer
school "Recent Topics in Geometric Analysis".
  Karabulut and Sibert (\textit{J. Math. Phys}. \textbf{38} (9), 4815 (1997))
have constructed an orthogonal set of functions from linear combinations of
equally spaced Gaussians. In this paper we show that they are actually
eigenfunctions of a q-oscillator in coordinate representation. We also
reinterpret the coordinate representation example of q-oscillator given by
Macfarlane as the functions orthogonal with respect to an unusual inner product
definition. It is shown that the eigenfunctions in both q-oscillator examples
are infinitely degenerate.
  In this paper, the stability condition for low-density parity-check (LDPC)
codes on the binary erasure channel (BEC) is extended to generalized LDPC
(GLDPC) codes and doublygeneralized LDPC (D-GLDPC) codes. It is proved that, in
both cases, the stability condition only involves the component codes with
minimum distance 2. The stability condition for GLDPC codes is always expressed
as an upper bound to the decoding threshold. This is not possible for D-GLDPC
codes, unless all the generalized variable nodes have minimum distance at least
3. Furthermore, a condition called derivative matching is defined in the paper.
This condition is sufficient for a GLDPC or DGLDPC code to achieve the
stability condition with equality. If this condition is satisfied, the
threshold of D-GLDPC codes (whose generalized variable nodes have all minimum
distance at least 3) and GLDPC codes can be expressed in closed form.
  We construct an entire function in the Eremenko-Lyubich class $\B$ whose
Julia set has only bounded path-components. This answers a question of Eremenko
from 1989 in the negative.
  On the other hand, we show that for many functions in $\B$, in particular
those of finite order, every escaping point can be connected to $\infty$ by a
curve of escaping points. This gives a partial positive answer to the
aforementioned question of Eremenko, and answers a question of Fatou from 1926.
  Employing Morse theory for the global control of monodromy and the method of
analytic discs for local extension, we establish a version of the global
Hartogs extension theorem in a singular setting: for every domain D of an
(n-1)-complete normal complex space X of pure dimension n >= 2 and for every
compact set K in D such that D - K is connected, holomorphic or meromorphic
functions in D - K extend holomorphically or meromorphically to D. Normality is
an unvavoidable assumption for holomorphic extension, but we show that
meromorphic extension holds on a reduced globally irreducible (not necessarily
normal) X of pure dimension n >=2 provided that the regular part of D - K is
connected.
  We prove an existential finiteness Varchenko-Khovanskii type result for
integrals of rational 1-forms over the level curves of Darbouxian integrals.
  RNA motifs typically consist of short, modular patterns that include base
pairs formed within and between modules. Estimating the abundance of these
patterns is of fundamental importance for assessing the statistical
significance of matches in genomewide searches, and for predicting whether a
given function has evolved many times in different species or arose from a
single common ancestor. In this manuscript, we review in an integrated and
self-contained manner some basic concepts of automata theory, generating
functions and transfer matrix methods that are relevant to pattern analysis in
biological sequences. We formalize, in a general framework, the concept of
Markov chain embedding to analyze patterns in random strings produced by a
memoryless source. This conceptualization, together with the capability of
automata to recognize complicated patterns, allows a systematic analysis of
problems related to the occurrence and frequency of patterns in random strings.
The applications we present focus on the concept of synchronization of
automata, as well as automata used to search for a finite number of keywords
(including sets of patterns generated according to base pairing rules) in a
general text.
  We study a variational model for a diblock-copolymer/homopolymer blend. The
energy functional is a sharp-interface limit of a generalisation of the
Ohta-Kawasaki energy. In one dimension, on the real line and on the torus, we
prove existence of minimisers of this functional and we describe in complete
detail the structure and energy of stationary points. Furthermore we
characterise the conditions under which the minimisers may be non-unique.
  In higher dimensions we construct lower and upper bounds on the energy of
minimisers, and explicitly compute the energy of spherically symmetric
configurations.
  Isomorphisms of separable Hilbert spaces are analogous to isomorphisms of
n-dimensional vector spaces. However, while n-dimensional spaces in
applications are always realized as the Euclidean space R^n, Hilbert spaces
admit various useful realizations as spaces of functions. In the paper this
simple observation is used to construct a fruitful formalism of local
coordinates on Hilbert manifolds. Images of charts on manifolds in the
formalism are allowed to belong to arbitrary Hilbert spaces of functions
including spaces of generalized functions. Tensor equations then describe
families of functional equations on various spaces of functions. The formalism
itself and its applications in linear algebra, differential equations and
differential geometry are analyzed.
  Given an object over the algebraic closure Qbar of Q, there is often no
reason for invariants of the corresponding holomorphic object to be preserved
by the absolute Galois group Gal(Qbar/Q), and in general this is not true,
although it is sometimes surprising to observe in practice. The case of covers
of the projective line branched only over the points 0, 1, and infinity,
through Belyi's theorem, leads to Grothendieck's dessins d'enfants program for
understanding the absolute Galois group through its faithful action on such
covers. This note is motivated by Catanese's question about a
higher-dimensional analogue: does the absolute Galois group act faithfully on
the deformation equivalence classes of smooth surfaces? (These equivalence
classes are of course by definition the strongest deformation invariants.) We
give a short proof of a weaker result: the absolute Galois group acts
faithfully on the irreducible components of the moduli space of smooth surfaces
(of general type, canonically polarized). Bauer, Catanese, and Grunewald have
recently answered Catanese's original question using a different construction.
  In 1954 it was proved if f is infinitely differentiable in the interval I and
some derivative (of order depending on x) vanishes at each x, then f is a
polynomial. Later it was generalized for multi-variable case. In this paper we
give an extension for distributions.
  Motivated by applications to quantum field theory we consider Gibbs measures
for which the reference measure is Wiener measure and the interaction is given
by a double stochastic integral and a pinning external potential. In order
properly to characterize these measures through DLR equations, we are led to
lift Wiener measure and other objects to a space of configurations where the
basic observables are not only the position of the particle at all times but
also the work done by test vector fields. We prove existence and basic
properties of such Gibbs measures in the small coupling regime by means of
cluster expansion.
  We examine the problem of determining which nodes are neighbors of a given
one in a wireless network. We consider an unsupervised network operating on a
frequency-flat Gaussian channel, where $K+1$ nodes associate their identities
to nonorthogonal signatures, transmitted at random times, synchronously, and
independently. A number of neighbor-discovery algorithms, based on different
optimization criteria, are introduced and analyzed. Numerical results show how
reduced-complexity algorithms can achieve a satisfactory performance.
  We introduce the notion of Differential Sequences of ordinary differential
equations. This is motivated by related studies based on evolution partial
differential equations. We discuss the Riccati Sequence in terms of symmetry
analysis, singularity analysis and identification of the complete symmetry
group for each member of the Sequence. The singularity analysis reveals
considerable structure for the values of the coefficients of the leading-order
terms and resonances of the different principal branches. Full proofs of the
symmetry properties are performed for differential equations defined by their
recursion properties and not given in explicit form.
  A new variant of the Feshbach map, called smooth Feshbach map, has been
introduced recently by Bach et al., in connection with the renormalization
analysis of non-relativistic quantum electrodynamics. We analyze and clarify
its algebraic and analytic properties, and we generalize it to non-selfadjoint
partition operators $\chi$ and $\chib$.
  A number of results for C$^2$-smooth surfaces of constant width in Euclidean
3-space ${\mathbb{E}}^3$ are obtained. In particular, an integral inequality
for constant width surfaces is established. This is used to prove that the
ratio of volume to cubed width of a constant width surface is reduced by
shrinking it along its normal lines. We also give a characterization of
surfaces of constant width that have rational support function.
  Our techniques, which are complex differential geometric in nature, allow us
to construct explicit smooth surfaces of constant width in ${\mathbb{E}}^3$,
and their focal sets. They also allow for easy construction of tetrahedrally
symmetric surfaces of constant width.
  Making use of recent techniques in the theory of selfadjoint extensions of
symmetric operators, we characterize the class of point interaction
Hamiltonians in a 3-D bounded domain with regular boundary. In the particular
case of one point interaction acting in the center of a ball, we obtain an
explicit representation of the point spectrum of the operator togheter with the
corresponding related eigenfunctions. These operators are used to build up a
model-system where the dynamics of a quantum particle depends on the state of a
quantum bit.
  A singular foliation on a complete riemannian manifold M is said to be
riemannian if each geodesic that is perpendicular at one point to a leaf
remains perpendicular to every leaf it meets. We prove that the regular leaves
are equifocal, i.e., the end point map of a normal foliated vector field has
constant rank. This implies that we can reconstruct the singular foliation by
taking all parallel submanifolds of a regular leaf with trivial holonomy. In
addition, the end point map of a normal foliated vector field on a leaf with
trivial holonomy is a covering map. These results generalize previous results
of the authors on singular riemannian foliations with sections.
  Let $L$ be one of the finite dimensional Lie algebras $W_n({\bf m}),$
$S_n({\bf m}),$ $ H_n({\bf m})$ of Cartan type over an algebraically closed
field of prime characteristic $p>0.$ For an elements $F$ of the symmetrical
algebra $S(L)$ we found necessary and sufficient condition in order to the
element $ad(\partial_1)^{p^{m_1}-1} ad(\partial_2)^{p^{m_2}-1}...
ad(\partial_n)^{p^{m_n}-1}(F)$ belongs to the symmetrical invariants algebra
$S(L)^L.$ Also, for $p=3,5$ the algebra of symmetrical invariants
$S(H_2)^{H_2}$ is calculated in explicit way.
  We describe the GIT compactification of the moduli space of cubic fourfolds,
with a special emphasis on the role played by singularities. Our main result is
that a cubic fourfold with only isolated simple (A-D-E) singularities is GIT
stable. Conversely, with some minor exceptions, the stability for cubic
fourfolds is characterized by this condition.
  We give a comparison of the spectrum of Yang-Mills theory in $D=3+1$,
recently derived with a strong coupling expansion, with lattice data. We verify
excellent agreement also for 2$^{++}$ glueball. A deep analogy with the $D=2+1$
case is obtained and a full quantum theory of this approach is also given.
  We determine the Z-module structure of the preprojective algebra and its
zeroth Hochschild homology, for any non-Dynkin quiver (and hence the structure
working over any base commutative ring, of any characteristic). This answers
(and generalizes) a conjecture of Hesselholt and Rains, producing new
$p$-torsion classes in degrees 2p^l, l >= 1, We relate these classes by p-th
power maps and interpret them in terms of the kernel of Verschiebung maps from
noncommutative Witt theory. An important tool is a generalization of the
Diamond Lemma to modules over commutative rings, which we give in the appendix.
  In the previous version, additional results are included, such as: the
Poisson center of $\text{Sym } HH_0(\Pi)$ for all quivers, the BV algebra
structure on Hochschild cohomology, including how the Lie algebra structure
$HH_0(\Pi_Q)$ naturally arises from it, and the cyclic homology groups of
$\Pi_Q$.
  Let k be a perfect field of characteristic p > 2. In this note, we show that
the local moduli space of a non-supersingular K3 surface over k with trivial
deformation of the associated enlarged formal Brauer group admits a natural
p-divisible formal group structure.
  Kernel-based nonparametric hazard rate estimation is considered with a
special class of infinite-order kernels that achieves favorable bias and mean
square error properties. A fully automatic and adaptive implementation of a
density and hazard rate estimator is proposed for randomly right censored data.
Careful selection of the bandwidth in the proposed estimators yields estimates
that are more efficient in terms of overall mean squared error performance, and
in some cases achieves a nearly parametric convergence rate. Additionally,
rapidly converging bandwidth estimates are presented for use in second-order
kernels to supplement such kernel-based methods in hazard rate estimation.
Simulations illustrate the improved accuracy of the proposed estimator against
other nonparametric estimators of the density and hazard function. A real data
application is also presented on survival data from 13,166 breast carcinoma
patients.
  One of the main open questions in liaison theory is whether every homogeneous
Cohen-Macaulay ideal in a polynomial ring is glicci, i.e. if it is in the
G-liaison class of a complete intersection. We give an affirmative answer to
this question for Stanley-Reisner ideals defined by simplicial complexes that
are weakly vertex-decomposable. This class of complexes includes matroid,
shifted and Gorenstein complexes respectively. Moreover, we construct a
simplicial complex which shows that the property of being glicci depends on the
characteristic of the base field. As an application of our methods we establish
new evidence for two conjectures of Stanley on partitionable complexes and on
Stanley decompositions.
  Link homotopy has been an active area of research for knot theorists since
its introduction by Milnor in the 1950s. We introduce a new equivalence
relation on spatial graphs called component homotopy, which reduces to link
homotopy in the classical case. Unlike previous attempts at generalizing link
homotopy to spatial graphs, our new relation allows analogues of some standard
link homotopy results and invariants.
  In particular we can define a type of Milnor group for a spatial graph under
component homotopy, and this group determines whether or not the spatial graph
is splittable. More surprisingly, we will also show that whether the spatial
graph is splittable up to component homotopy depends only on the link homotopy
class of the links contained within it. Numerical invariants of the relation
will also be produced.
  The detection and estimation of signals in noisy, limited data is a problem
of interest to many scientific and engineering communities. We present a
computationally simple, sample eigenvalue based procedure for estimating the
number of high-dimensional signals in white noise when there are relatively few
samples. We highlight a fundamental asymptotic limit of sample eigenvalue based
detection of weak high-dimensional signals from a limited sample size and
discuss its implication for the detection of two closely spaced signals.
  This motivates our heuristic definition of the 'effective number of
identifiable signals.' Numerical simulations are used to demonstrate the
consistency of the algorithm with respect to the effective number of signals
and the superior performance of the algorithm with respect to Wax and Kailath's
"asymptotically consistent" MDL based estimator.
  In wireless packet-forwarding networks with selfish nodes, applications of a
repeated game can induce the nodes to forward each others' packets, so that the
network performance can be improved. However, the nodes on the boundary of such
networks cannot benefit from this strategy, as the other nodes do not depend on
them. This problem is sometimes known as the curse of the boundary nodes. To
overcome this problem, an approach based on coalition games is proposed, in
which the boundary nodes can use cooperative transmission to help the backbone
nodes in the middle of the network. In return, the backbone nodes are willing
to forward the boundary nodes' packets. The stability of the coalitions is
studied using the concept of a core. Then two types of fairness, namely, the
min-max fairness using nucleolus and the average fairness using the Shapley
function are investigated. Finally, a protocol is designed using both repeated
games and coalition games. Simulation results show how boundary nodes and
backbone nodes form coalitions together according to different fairness
criteria. The proposed protocol can improve the network connectivity by about
50%, compared with pure repeated game schemes.
  Consider a collection of random variables attached to the vertices of a
graph. The reconstruction problem requires to estimate one of them given `far
away' observations. Several theoretical results (and simple algorithms) are
available when their joint probability distribution is Markov with respect to a
tree. In this paper we consider the case of sequences of random graphs that
converge locally to trees. In particular, we develop a sufficient condition for
the tree and graph reconstruction problem to coincide. We apply such condition
to colorings of random graphs.
  Further, we characterize the behavior of Ising models on such graphs, both
with attractive and random interactions (respectively, `ferromagnetic' and
`spin glass').
  We present the construction and properties of a self-dual perverse sheaf S_0
whose cohomology fulfills some of the requirements of String theory as outlined
by T. Hubsch in hep-th/9612075. The construction of this S_0 utilizes
techniques that follow from MacPherson-Vilonen (Inv. Math. vol. 84, pp.
403-435, 1986). Finally, we will discuss its properties as they relate to
String theory.
  In this note we correct an omission in our paper (Satheesh and Sandhya, 2005)
in defining semi-selfdecomposable laws and also show with examples that the
marginal distributions of a stationary AR(1) process need not even be
infinitely divisible.
  Quantum mechanics is formulated as a geometric theory on a Hilbert manifold.
Images of charts on the manifold are allowed to belong to arbitrary Hilbert
spaces of functions including spaces of generalized functions. Tensor equations
in this setting, also called functional tensor equations, describe families of
functional equations on various Hilbert spaces of functions. The principle of
functional relativity is introduced which states that quantum theory is indeed
a functional tensor theory, i.e., it can be described by functional tensor
equations. The main equations of quantum theory are shown to be compatible with
the principle of functional relativity. By accepting the principle as a
hypothesis, we then analyze the origin of physical dimensions, provide a
geometric interpretation of Planck's constant, and find a simple interpretation
of the two-slit experiment and the process of measurement.
  We study transcendental singularities of a Schr\"oder map arising from a
rational function $f$, using results from complex dynamics and Nevanlinna
theory. These maps are transcendental meromorphic functions of finite order in
the complex plane. We show that their transcendental singularities lie over the
set where $f$ is not semihyperbolic (unhyperbolic). In addition, if they are
direct, then they lie over only attracting periodic points of $f$, and
moreover, if $f$ is a polynomial, then both direct and indirect singularities
lie over attracting, parabolic and Cremer periodic points of $f$. We also
obtain concrete examples of both kinds of transcendental singularities of
Schr\"oder maps as well as a new proof of the Pommerenke-Levin-Yoccoz
inequality and a new formulation of the Fatou conjecture.
  Given a finite set of lattice points, we compare its sumsets and lattice
points in its dilated convex hulls. Both of these are known to grow as
polynomials. Generally, the former are subsets of the latter. In this paper, we
will see that sumsets occupy all the central lattice points in convex hulls,
giving us a kind of approximation to lattice points in polytopes.
  This paper is an introduction to the jet schemes and the arc space of an
algebraic variety. We also introduce the Nash problem on arc families.
  The article is devoted to the investigation of groups of diffeomorphisms and
loops of manifolds over ultra-metric fields of zero and positive
characteristics. Different types of topologies are considered on groups of
loops and diffeomorphisms relative to which they are generalized Lie groups or
topological groups. Among such topologies pairwise incomparable are found as
well. Topological perfectness of the diffeomorphism group relative to certain
topologies is studied. There are proved theorems about projective limit
decompositions of these groups and their compactifications for compact
manifolds. Moreover, an existence of one-parameter local subgroups of
diffeomorphism groups is investigated.
  We present a systematic procedure to obtain singular solutions of the
constant quantum Yang-Baxter equation in arbitrary dimension. This approach,
inspired in the Lie (super)algebra structure, is explicitly applied to the
particular case of (graded) contractions of the orthogonal real algebra
${\mathfrak{so}}(N+1)$. In this way we show that "classical" contraction
parameters which appear in the commutation relations of the contracted Lie
algebras, become quantum deformation parameters, arising as entries of the
resulting quantum $R$-matrices.
  We demonstrate that partner symmetries provide a lift of noninvariant
solutions of three-dimensional Boyer-Finley equation to noninvariant solutions
of four-dimensional hyperbolic complex Monge-Ampere equation. The lift is
applied to noninvariant solutions of the Boyer-Finley equation, obtained
earlier by the method of group foliation, to yield noninvariant solutions of
the hyperbolic complex Monge-Ampere equation. Using these solutions we
construct new Ricci-flat ultra-hyperbolic metrics with non-zero curvature
tensor that have no Killing vectors.
  This paper provides a probabilistic algorithm to determine generators of the
m-torsion subgroup of the Jacobian of a hyperelliptic curve of genus two.
  We extend classical results of Kostant and al. on multiplets of
representations of finite-dimensional Lie algebras and on the cubic Dirac
operator to the setting of affine Lie algebras and twisted affine cubic Dirac
operator. We prove in this setting an analogue of Vogan's conjecture on
infinitesimal characters of Harish-Chandra modules in terms of Dirac
cohomology. For our calculations we use the machinery of Lie conformal and
vertex algebras.
  A category which generalises to higher dimensions many of the features of the
Temperley-Lieb category is introduced.
  We provide a characterization of $J$-class and $J^{mix}$-class unilateral
weighted shifts on $l^{\infty}(\mathbb{N})$ in terms of their weight sequences.
In contrast to the previously mentioned result we show that a bilateral
weighted shift on $l^{\infty}(\mathbb{Z})$ cannot be a $J$-class operator.
  The purpose of the present work is to treat a new notion related to linear
dynamics, which can be viewed as a "localization" of the notion of
hypercyclicity. In particular, let $T$ be a bounded linear operator acting on a
Banach space $X$ and let $x$ be a non-zero vector in $X$ such that for every
open neighborhood $U\subset X$ of $x$ and every non-empty open set $V\subset X$
there exists a positive integer $n$ such that $T^{n}U\cap V\neq\emptyset$. In
this case $T$ will be called a $J$-class operator. We investigate the class of
operators satisfying the above property and provide various examples. It is
worthwhile to mention that many results from the theory of hypercyclic
operators have their analogues in this setting. For example we establish
results related to the Bourdon-Feldman theorem and we characterize the
$J$-class weighted shifts. We would also like to stress that even non-separable
Banach spaces which do not support topologically transitive operators, as for
example $l^{\infty}(\mathbb{N})$, do admit $J$-class operators.
  Let $K$ be field of characteristic 2 and let $G$ be a finite non-abelian
2-group with the cyclic derived subgroup $G'$, and there exists a central
element $z$ of order 2 in $Z(G) \backslash G'$. We prove that the unit group of
the group algebra $KG$ possesses a section isomorphic to the wreath product of
a group of order 2 with the derived subgroup of the group $G$, giving for such
groups a positive answer to the question of A. Shalev.
  We introduce a special class of pairwise-independent self-joinings for a
stationary process: Those for which one coordinate is a continuous function of
the two others. We investigate which properties on the process the existence of
such a joining entails. In particular, we prove that if the process is
aperiodic, then it has positive entropy. Our other results suggest that such
pairwise independent, non-independent self-joinings exist only in very specific
situations: Essentially when the process is a subshift of finite type
topologically conjugate to a full-shift. This provides an argument in favor of
the conjecture that 2-fold mixing implies 3-fold-mixing.
  For any polynomial $P \in \mathbb{C}[X_1,X_2,...,X_n]$, we describe a
$\mathbb{C}$-vector space $F(P)$ of solutions of a linear system of equations
coming from some algebraic partial differential equations such that the
dimension of $F(P)$ is the number of irreducible factors of $P$. Moreover, the
knowledge of $F(P)$ gives a complete factorization of the polynomial $P$ by
taking gcd's. This generalizes previous results by Ruppert and Gao in the case
$n=2$.
  We prove some conditions on the existence of natural boundaries of Dirichlet
series. We show that generically the presumed boundary is the natural one. We
also give an application of natural boundaries in determining asymptotic
results.
  By using the links between generalized roundness, negative type inequalities
and equivariant Hilbert space compressions, we obtain that the generalized
roundness of the usual Cayley graph of finitely generated free groups and free
abelian groups of rank $\geq 2$ equals 1. This answers a question of J-F.
Lafont and S. Prassidis.
  We investigate the validity of the isometry extension property for
(Riemannian) Einstein metrics on manifolds with boundary. Given a metric on the
boundary, this is the issue of whether any Killing field of the boundary metric
extends to a Killing field of any bulk or filling Einstein metric inducing the
given data on the boundary. Under a mild condition on the fundamental group,
this is proved to be the case at least when the Killing field preserves the
mean curvature of the boundary.
  This paper introduces $\anabla$-tensors on lightlike hypersurfaces $M^{n+1}$
of signature $(0,n)$, $(n\geq 1)$ and investigates on their properties in
connection with the null geometry of $M$. In particular, we show that there is
an interplay between existence of $\anabla$-tensors of certain type and
lightlike warped product structures.
  Chen et al. recently established bijections for $(d+1)$-noncrossing/
nonnesting matchings, oscillating tableaux of bounded height $d$, and
oscillating lattice walks in the $d$-dimensional Weyl chamber. Stanley asked
what is the total number of such tableaux of length $n$ and of any shape. We
find a determinant formula for the exponential generating function. The same
idea applies to prove Gessel's remarkable determinant formula for permutations
with bounded length of increasing subsequences. We also give short algebraic
derivations for some results of the reflection principle.
  Degenerate submanifolds of pseudo-Riemannian manifolds are quite difficult to
study because there is no prefered connection when the submanifold is not
totally geodesic. For the particular case of degenerate totally umbilical
hypersurfaces, we show that there are "Weyl" connections adapted to the induced
structure on the hypersurface. We begin the study of these with their holonomy.
  We study Weyl structures on lightlikes hypersurfaces endowed with a conformal
structure of certain type and specific screen distribution: the Weyl screen
structures. We investigate various differential geometric properties of
Einstein-Weyl screen structures on lightlike hypersurfaces and show that, for
ambiant Lorentzian space $\mathbb{R}^{n+2}_{1}$ and a totally umbilical screen
foliation, there is a strong interplay with the induced (Riemannian)
Weyl-structure on the leaves. Finally, we establish necessary and sufficient
conditions for a Weyl structure defined by the $1-$form of an almost contact
structure given by an additional complex structure in case of an ambiant
Kaehler manifold to be closed.
  We find and study a five-parameter family of four-dimensional coupled
Painlev\'e V systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_5^{(1)}$. We
then give an explicit description of a confluence from those systems to a
four-parameter family of four-dimensional coupled Painlev\'e III systems with
affine Weyl group symmetry of type $B_4^{(1)}$.
  We initiate the study of a class of noncommutative domains of n-tuples of
bounded linear operators on a Hilbert space, which is generated by certain
positivity conditions on polynomials in n noncommutative indeterminates. We
obtain Fatou type results, functional calculi, and a model theory for n-tuples
of operators in these domains. The main role in this study is played by a class
of noncommutative Berezin transforms which is introduced in this paper. Our
results extend to noncommutative varieties.
  In [DJL07] it was shown that if A is an affine hyperplane arrangement in C^n,
then at most one of the L^2-Betti numbers of its complement is non--zero. We
will prove an analogous statement for complements of any algebraic curve in
C^2. Furthermore we also recast and extend results of [LM06] in terms of
L^2-Betti numbers.
  Recently Kearton showed that any Seifert matrix of a knot is S--equivalent to
the Seifert matrix of a prime knot. We show in this note that such a matrix is
in fact S--equivalent to the Seifert matrix of a hyperbolic knot. This result
follows from reinterpreting this problem in terms of Blanchfield pairings and
by applying results of Kawauchi.
  Collaborative beamforming (CB) and cooperative transmission (CT) have
recently emerged as communication techniques that can make effective use of
collaborative/cooperative nodes to create a virtual
multiple-input/multiple-output (MIMO) system. Extending the lifetime of
networks composed of battery-operated nodes is a key issue in the design and
operation of wireless sensor networks. This paper considers the effects on
network lifetime of allowing closely located nodes to use CB/CT to reduce the
load or even to avoid packet-forwarding requests to nodes that have critical
battery life. First, the effectiveness of CB/CT in improving the signal
strength at a faraway destination using energy in nearby nodes is studied.
Then, the performance improvement obtained by this technique is analyzed for a
special 2D disk case. Further, for general networks in which
information-generation rates are fixed, a new routing problem is formulated as
a linear programming problem, while for other general networks, the cost for
routing is dynamically adjusted according to the amount of energy remaining and
the effectiveness of CB/CT. From the analysis and the simulation results, it is
seen that the proposed method can reduce the payloads of energy-depleting nodes
by about 90% in the special case network considered and improve the lifetimes
of general networks by about 10%, compared with existing techniques.
  In this paper we present an upper bound for the decay of correlation for the
stationary stochastic process associated with the Entropy Penalized Method. Let
$L(x, v):\Tt^n\times\Rr^n\to \Rr$ be a Lagrangian of the form
  L(x,v) = {1/2}|v|^2 - U(x) + < P, v>.
  For each value of $\epsilon $ and $h$, consider the operator
  \Gg[\phi](x):= -\epsilon h {ln}[\int_{\re^N} e
^{-\frac{hL(x,v)+\phi(x+hv)}{\epsilon h}}dv], as well as the reversed operator
\bar \Gg[\phi](x):= -\epsilon h {ln}[\int_{\re^N}
e^{-\frac{hL(x+hv,-v)+\phi(x+hv)}{\epsilon h}}dv], both acting on continuous
functions $\phi:\Tt^n\to \Rr$. Denote by $\phi_{\epsilon,h} $ the solution of
$\Gg[\phi_{\epsilon,h}]=\phi_{\epsilon,h}+\lambda_{\epsilon,h}$, and by $\bar
\phi_{\epsilon,h} $ the solution of $\bar \Gg[\phi_{\epsilon,h}]=\bar
\phi_{\epsilon,h}+\lambda_{\epsilon,h}$. In order to analyze the decay of
correlation for this process we show that the operator $ {\cal L} (\phi) (x) =
\int e^{- \frac{h L (x,v)}{\epsilon}} \phi(x+h v) d v,$ has a maximal
eigenvalue isolated from the rest of the spectrum.
  Extending network lifetime of battery-operated devices is a key design issue
that allows uninterrupted information exchange among distributive nodes in
wireless sensor networks. Collaborative beamforming (CB) and cooperative
transmission (CT) have recently emerged as new communication techniques that
enable and leverage effective resource sharing among collaborative/cooperative
nodes. In this paper, we seek to maximize the lifetime of sensor networks by
using the new idea that closely located nodes can use CB/CT to reduce the load
or even avoid packet forwarding requests to nodes that have critical battery
life. First, we study the effectiveness of CB/CT to improve the signal strength
at a faraway destination using energy in nearby nodes. Then, a 2D disk case is
analyzed to assess the resulting performance improvement. For general networks,
if information-generation rates are fixed, the new routing problem is
formulated as a linear programming problem; otherwise, the cost for routing is
dynamically adjusted according to the amount of energy remaining and the
effectiveness of CB/CT. From the analysis and simulation results, it is seen
that the proposed schemes can improve the lifetime by about 90% in the 2D disk
network and by about 10% in the general networks, compared to existing schemes.
  An extensive literature exists describing various techniques for the
evaluation of Hankel determinants. The prevailing methods such as Dodgson
condensation, continued fraction expansion, LU decomposition, all produce
product formulas when they are applicable. We mention the classic case of the
Hankel determinants with binomial entries ${3k+2 \choose k}$ and those with
entries ${3k \choose k}$; both of these classes of Hankel determinants have
product form evaluations. The intermediate case, ${3k+1 \choose k}$ has not
been evaluated. There is a good reason for this: these latter determinants do
not have product form evaluations.
  In this paper we evaluate the Hankel determinant of ${3k+1 \choose k}$. The
evaluation is a sum of a small number of products, an almost product.
  The method actually provides more, and as applications, we present the
salient points for the evaluation of a number of other Hankel determinants with
polynomial entries, along with product and almost product form evaluations at
special points.
  Cooperative transmission is an emerging communication technique that takes
advantages of the broadcast nature of wireless channels. However, due to low
spectral efficiency and the requirement of orthogonal channels, its potential
for use in future wireless networks is limited. In this paper, by making use of
multiuser detection (MUD) and network coding, cooperative transmission
protocols with high spectral efficiency, diversity order, and coding gain are
developed. Compared with the traditional cooperative transmission protocols
with single-user detection, in which the diversity gain is only for one source
user, the proposed MUD cooperative transmission protocols have the merits that
the improvement of one user's link can also benefit the other users. In
addition, using MUD at the relay provides an environment in which network
coding can be employed. The coding gain and high diversity order can be
obtained by fully utilizing the link between the relay and the destination.
  From the analysis and simulation results, it is seen that the proposed
protocols achieve higher diversity gain, better asymptotic efficiency, and
lower bit error rate, compared to traditional MUD and to existing cooperative
transmission protocols.
  We consider a finite quantum system coupled to quasifree thermal reservoirs
at different temperatures. Under the assumptions of small coupling and
exponential decay of the reservoir correlation function, the large deviation
generating function of energy transport into the reservoirs is shown to be
analytic on a bounded set. Our method is different from the spectral
deformation technique which was employed recently in the study of
spin-boson-like models. As a corollary, we derive the Gallavotti-Cohen
fluctuation relation for the entropy production and a central limit theorem for
energy transport.
  We establish the optimal diversity-multiplexing (DM) tradeoff of coherent
time, frequency and time-frequency selective-fading MIMO channels and provide a
code design criterion for DM-tradeoff optimality. Our results are based on the
analysis of the "Jensen channel" associated to a given selective-fading MIMO
channel. While the original problem seems analytically intractable due to the
mutual information being a sum of correlated random variables, the Jensen
channel is equivalent to the original channel in the sense of the DM-tradeoff
and lends itself nicely to analytical treatment. Finally, as a consequence of
our results, we find that the classical rank criterion for space-time code
design (in selective-fading MIMO channels) ensures optimality in the sense of
the DM-tradeoff.
  The numerical simulation of wave propagation in semiclassical
(high-frequency) problems is well known to pose a formidable challenge. In this
work, a new phase-space approach for the numerical simulation of semiclassical
wave propagation, making use of the smoothed Wigner Transform (SWT), is
proposed. There are numerous works which use the Wigner Transform (WT) in the
study of a variety of wave propagation problems including high-frequency limits
for linear, nonlinear and/or random waves. The WT however is well known to
present significant difficulties in the formulation of numerical schemes.
Working with concrete examples for the semiclassical linear Schrodinger
equation it is seen that the SWT approach is indeed significantly faster (in a
well-defined sense) to work with than the WT and than full numerical solutions
of the original equation in the semiclassical regime. Comparisons with exact
and numerical solutions are used to keep track of numerical errors.
  Distributed estimation based on measurements from multiple wireless sensors
is investigated. It is assumed that a group of sensors observe the same
quantity in independent additive observation noises with possibly different
variances. The observations are transmitted using amplify-and-forward (analog)
transmissions over non-ideal fading wireless channels from the sensors to a
fusion center, where they are combined to generate an estimate of the observed
quantity. Assuming that the Best Linear Unbiased Estimator (BLUE) is used by
the fusion center, the equal-power transmission strategy is first discussed,
where the system performance is analyzed by introducing the concept of
estimation outage and estimation diversity, and it is shown that there is an
achievable diversity gain on the order of the number of sensors. The optimal
power allocation strategies are then considered for two cases: minimum
distortion under power constraints; and minimum power under distortion
constraints. In the first case, it is shown that by turning off bad sensors,
i.e., sensors with bad channels and bad observation quality, adaptive power
gain can be achieved without sacrificing diversity gain. Here, the adaptive
power gain is similar to the array gain achieved in Multiple-Input
Single-Output (MISO) multi-antenna systems when channel conditions are known to
the transmitter. In the second case, the sum power is minimized under
zero-outage estimation distortion constraint, and some related energy
efficiency issues in sensor networks are discussed.
  In time hopping impulse radio, $N_f$ pulses of duration $T_c$ are transmitted
for each information symbol. This gives rise to two types of processing gain:
(i) pulse combining gain, which is a factor $N_f$, and (ii) pulse spreading
gain, which is $N_c=T_f/T_c$, where $T_f$ is the mean interval between two
subsequent pulses. This paper investigates the trade-off between these two
types of processing gain in the presence of timing jitter. First, an additive
white Gaussian noise (AWGN) channel is considered and approximate closed form
expressions for bit error probability are derived for impulse radio systems
with and without pulse-based polarity randomization. Both symbol-synchronous
and chip-synchronous scenarios are considered. The effects of multiple-access
interference and timing jitter on the selection of optimal system parameters
are explained through theoretical analysis. Finally, a multipath scenario is
considered and the trade-off between processing gains of a synchronous impulse
radio system with pulse-based polarity randomization is analyzed. The effects
of the timing jitter, multiple-access interference and inter-frame interference
are investigated. Simulation studies support the theoretical results.
  In this brief note, we will investigate the number of points of bounded
(twisted) height in a projective variety defined over a function field, where
the function field comes from a projective variety of dimension greater than or
equal to 2. A first step in this investigation is to understand the $p$-adic
analytic properties of the height zeta function. In particular, we will show
that for a large class of projective varieties this function is $p$-adic
meromorphic.
  In this short article, we prove that any automorphism of the R. Thompson's
group $F$ has infinitely many twisted conjugacy classes. The result follows
from the work of Matthew Brin, together with a standard facts on R. Thompson's
group $F$, and elementary properties of the Reidemeister numbers.
  We study monomial ideals, always locally given by a monomial, like a
reasonable first step to estimate in general the number of monoidal
transformations of Villamayor's algorithm of resolution of singularities. The
resolution of a monomial ideal $<X_1^{a_1}\cdot ... \cdot X_n^{a_n}>$ is
interesting due to its identification with the particular toric problem $<Z^c-
X_1^{a_1}\cdot ... \cdot X_n^{a_n}>$.
  In the special case, when all the exponents $a_i$ are greater than or equal
to the critical value $c$, we construct the largest branch of the resolution
tree which provides an upper bound involving partial sums of Catalan numbers.
This case will be called ``minimal codimensional case''. Partial sums of
Catalan numbers (starting $1,2,5,...$) are $1,3,8,22,...$ These partial sums
are well known in Combinatorics and count the number of paths starting from the
root in all ordered trees with $n+1$ edges. Catalan numbers appear in many
combinatorial problems, counting the number of ways to insert $n$ pairs of
parenthesis in a word of $n+1$ letters, plane trees with $n+1$ vertices, $...
$, etc.
  The non minimal case, when there exists some exponent $a_{i_0}$ smaller than
$c$, will be called ``case of higher codimension''. In this case, still
unresolved, we give an example to state the foremost troubles.
  Computation of examples has been helpful in both cases to study the behaviour
of the resolution invariant. Computations have been made in Singular (see
\cite{sing}) using the \emph{desing} package by G. Bodn\'ar and J. Schicho, see
\cite{lib}.
  We compute the integral cohomology of the minimal non-trivial nilpotent orbit
in a complex simple (or quasi-simple) Lie algebra. We find by a uniform
approach that the middle cohomology group is isomorphic to the fundamental
group of the sub-root system generated by the long simple roots. The modulo
$\ell$ reduction of the Springer correspondent representation involves the sign
representation exactly when $\ell$ divides the order of this cohomology group.
The primes dividing the torsion of the rest of the cohomology are bad primes.
  A class of interacting classical random fields is constructed using deformed
*-algebras of creation and annihilation operators. The fields constructed are
classical random field versions of "Lie fields". A vacuum vector is used to
construct linear forms over the algebras, which are conjectured to be states
over the algebras. Assuming this conjecture is true, the fields constructed are
"quantum random fields" in the sense that they have Poincare invariant vacua
with a fluctuation scale determined by Planck's constant. A nonlocal particle
interpretation of the formalism is shown to be the same as a particle
interpretation of a quantum field theory.
  Let R be a commutative noetherian local ring and consider the set of
isomorphism classes of indecomposable totally reflexive R-modules. We prove
that if this set is finite, then either it has exactly one element, represented
by the rank 1 free module, or R is Gorenstein and an isolated singularity (if R
is complete, then it is even a simple hypersurface singularity). The crux of
our proof is to argue that if the residue field has a totally reflexive cover,
then R is Gorenstein or every totally reflexive R-module is free.
  An orthogonal complex structure on a domain in R^4 is a complex structure
which is integrable and is compatible with the Euclidean metric. This gives
rise to a first order system of partial differential equations which is
conformally invariant. We prove two Liouville-type uniqueness theorems for
solutions of this system, and use these to give an alternative proof of the
classification of compact locally conformally flat Hermitian surfaces first
proved by Pontecorvo. We also give a classification of non-degenerate quadrics
in CP^3 under the action of the conformal group. Using this classification, we
show that generic quadrics give rise to orthogonal complex structures defined
on the complement of unknotted solid tori which are smoothly embedded in R^4.
  Any stretching of Ringel's non-Pappus pseudoline arrangement when projected
into the Euclidean plane, implicitly contains a particular arrangement of nine
triangles. This arrangement has a complex constraint involving the sines of its
angles. These constraints cannot be satisfied by any projection of the initial
arrangement. This is sufficient to prove Pappus's theorem. The derivation of
the constraint is via systems of inequalities arising from the polar
coordinates of the lines. These systems are linear in r for any given theta,
and their solubility can be analysed in terms of the signs of determinants. The
evaluation of the determinants is via a normal form for sums of products of
sines, giving a powerful system of trigonometric identities. The particular
result is generalized to arrangements derived from three edge connected totally
cyclic directed graphs, conjectured to be sufficient for a complete analysis of
angle constraining arrangements of lines, and thus a full response to Ringel's
slope conjecture. These methods are generally applicable to the realizability
problem for rank 3 oriented matroids.
  Four new exactly solvable, real and shape-invariant potentials associated
with a position-dependent effective mass are generated within the concept of
shape-invariant potentials using a specific ansatz for superpotential. The
accompanying energy spectra of the bound-state and the ground-state
wavefunction are obtained algebraically as a function of free parameters and
the results are compared with those of others works in the litterature.
  We find a five-parameter family of partial differential systems in two
variables with two polynomial Hamiltonians. We give its symmetry and holomorphy
conditions. These symmetries, holomorphy conditions and invariant divisors are
new.
  In this paper we address the problem of finding the sensing capacity of
sensor networks for a class of linear observation models and a fixed SNR
regime. Sensing capacity is defined as the maximum number of signal dimensions
reliably identified per sensor observation. In this context sparsity of the
phenomena is a key feature that determines sensing capacity. Precluding the SNR
of the environment the effect of sparsity on the number of measurements
required for accurate reconstruction of a sparse phenomena has been widely
dealt with under compressed sensing. Nevertheless the development there was
motivated from an algorithmic perspective. In this paper our aim is to derive
these bounds in an information theoretic set-up and thus provide algorithm
independent conditions for reliable reconstruction of sparse signals. In this
direction we first generalize the Fano's inequality and provide lower bounds to
the probability of error in reconstruction subject to an arbitrary distortion
criteria. Using these lower bounds to the probability of error, we derive upper
bounds to sensing capacity and show that for fixed SNR regime sensing capacity
goes down to zero as sparsity goes down to zero. This means that
disproportionately more sensors are required to monitor very sparse events. Our
next main contribution is that we show the effect of sensing diversity on
sensing capacity, an effect that has not been considered before. Sensing
diversity is related to the effective \emph{coverage} of a sensor with respect
to the field. In this direction we show the following results (a) Sensing
capacity goes down as sensing diversity per sensor goes down; (b) Random
sampling (coverage) of the field by sensors is better than contiguous location
sampling (coverage).
  Given a field $F$, an \'etale extension $L/F$ and an Azumaya algebra $A/L$,
one knows that there are extensions $E/F$ such that $A \otimes_F E$ is a split
algebra over $L \otimes_F E$. In this paper we bound the degree of a minimal
splitting field of this type from above and show that our bound is sharp in
certain situations, even in the case where $L/F$ is a split extension. This
gives in particular a number of generalizations of the classical fact that when
the tensor product of two quaternion algebras is not a division algebra, the
two quaternion algebras must share a common quadratic splitting field.
  In another direction, our constructions combined with results of Karpenko
also show that for any odd prime number $p$, the generic algebra of index
$p^n$, and exponent $p$ cannot be expressed nontrivially as the corestriction
of an algebra over any extension field if $n < p^2$.
  We study the structure of the spectrum of a two-level quantum system weakly
coupled to a boson field (spin-boson model). Our analysis allows to avoid the
cutoff in the number of bosons, if their spectrum is bounded below by a
positive constant. We show that, for small coupling constant, the lower part of
the spectrum of the spin-boson Hamiltonian contains (one or two) isolated
eigenvalues and (respectively, one or two) manifolds of atom $+ 1$-boson states
indexed by the boson momentum $q$. The dispersion laws and generalized
eigenfunctions of the latter are calculated.
  We show that if the Riemann Hypothesis is true, then in a region containing
most of the right-half of the critical strip, the Riemann zeta-function is well
approximated by short truncations of its Euler product. Conversely, if the
approximation by products is good in this region, the zeta-function has at most
finitely many zeros in it. We then construct a parameterized family of
non-analytic functions with this same property. With the possible exception of
a finite number of zeros off the critical line, every function in the family
satisfies a Riemann Hypothesis. Moreover, when the parameter is not too large,
they have about the same number of zeros as the zeta-function, their zeros are
all simple, and they "repel". The structure of these functions makes the reason
for the simplicity and repulsion of their zeros apparent and suggests a
mechanism that might be responsible for the corresponding properties of the
zeta-function's zeros. Computer evidence suggests that the zeros of functions
in the family are remarkably close to those of the zeta-function (even for
small values of the parameter), and we show that they indeed converge to them
as the parameter increases. Furthermore, between zeros of the zeta-function,
the moduli of functions in the family tend to twice the modulus of the
zeta-function. Both assertions assume the Riemann Hypothesis. We end by
discussing analogues for other L-functions and show how they give insight into
the study of the distribution of zeros of linear combinations of L-functions.
  Let $F$ be an algebraically closed field of characteristic zero, and let $p$
be an odd prime. We show that the center of the generic division algebra of
degree $p$ is stably rational over $F$. Equivalently, if we let $V=M_p(F)
\oplus M_p(F)$ and $PGL_p$ act on $V$ by simultaneous conjugation, then we show
that the function field of the quotient variety $V/PGL_p$ is stably rational
over $F$.
  An operator theoretic approach to orthogonal rational functions on the unit
circle with poles in its exterior is presented in this paper. This approach is
based on the identification of a suitable matrix representation of the
multiplication operator associated with the corresponding orthogonality
measure. Two different alternatives are discussed, depending whether we use for
the matrix representation the standard basis of orthogonal rational functions,
or a new one with poles alternatively located in the exterior and the interior
of the unit circle. The corresponding representations are linear fractional
transformations with matrix coefficients acting respectively on Hessenberg and
five-diagonal unitary matrices.
  In consequence, the orthogonality measure can be recovered from the spectral
measure of an infinite unitary matrix depending uniquely on the poles and the
parameters of the recurrence relation for the orthogonal rational functions.
Besides, the zeros of the orthogonal and para-orthogonal rational functions are
identified as the eigenvalues of matrix linear fractional transformations of
finite Hessenberg and five-diagonal matrices.
  As an application of this operator approach, we obtain new relations between
the support of the orthogonality measure and the location of the poles and
parameters of the recurrence relation, generalizing to the rational case known
results for orthogonal polynomials on the unit circle.
  Finally, we extend these results to orthogonal polynomials on the real line
with poles in the lower half plane.
  We prove the uniqueness of solutions of the Ricci flow on complete noncompact
manifolds with bounded curvatures using the De Turck approach. As a consequence
we obtain a correct proof of the existence of solution of the Ricci harmonic
flow on complete noncompact manifolds with bounded curvatures.
  The maximally clustered permutations are characterized by avoiding the
classical permutation patterns 3421, 4312, and 4321. This class contains the
freely-braided permutations and the fully-commutative permutations. In this
work, we show that the generating functions for certain fully-commutative
pattern classes can be transformed to give generating functions for the
corresponding freely-braided and maximally clustered pattern classes. Moreover,
this transformation of generating functions is rational. As a result, we obtain
enumerative formulas for the pattern classes mentioned above as well as the
corresponding hexagon-avoiding pattern classes where the hexagon-avoiding
permutations are characterized by avoiding 46718235, 46781235, 56718234, and
56781234.
  Tropical algebraic geometry offers new tools for elimination theory and
implicitization. We determine the tropicalization of the image of a subvariety
of an algebraic torus under any homomorphism from that torus to another torus.
  For any smooth algebraic curve C, Pavel Etingof introduced a `global'
Cherednik algebra as a natural deformation of the cross product of the algebra
of differential operators on C^n and the symmetric group. We provide a
construction of the global Cherednik algebra in terms of quantumn Hamiltonian
reduction. We study a category of character D-modules on a representation
scheme associated to C and define a Hamiltonian reduction functor from that
category to category O for the global Cherednik algebra.
  In the special case where the curve C is the multiplicative group, the global
Cherednik algebra reduces to the trigonometric Cherednik algebra of type A, and
our character D-modules become holonomic D-modules on GL_n \times C^n. The
corresponding perverse sheaves are reminiscent of (and include as special
cases) Lusztig's character sheaves.
  We discuss in this article a property of action of groups by isometries
called "well displacing". An action is said to be well displacing, if the
displacement function is equivalent to the the displacement function for the
action on the Cayley graph. We relate this property with the fact that orbit
maps are quasi-isometric embeddings. We first describe countrexamples that
shows this two notions are unrelated in general. On the other hand we explain
that for a certain class of groups -- in particular hyperbolic groups -- these
two properties are equivalent. In the course of our discussion, we introduce an
intrinsic property of the group -- that we called the U-property -- which says
quantitatively how the norm an element is controlled by the translation length
of finitely many related conjugacy classes. This property play a central role
in our discussion.
  In the context of Free Probability Theory, we study two different
constructions that provide new examples of factors of type ${\rm II_1}$ with
prescribed fundamental group. First we investigate state-preserving group
actions on the almost periodic free Araki-Woods factors satisfying both a
condition of mixing and a condition of free malleability in the sense of Popa.
Typical examples are given by the free Bogoliubov shifts. Take an ICC $w$-rigid
group $G$ such that $\mathcal{F}(L(G)) = \{1\}$ (e.g. $G = \Z^2 \rtimes \SL(2,
\Z)$). For any countable subgroup $S \subset \R^*_+$, we show that there exists
an action of $G$ on $L(\F_\infty)$ such that $L(\F_\infty) \rtimes G$ is a type
${\rm II_1}$ factor and its fundamental group is $S$. The second construction
is based on a free product. Take $(B(H), \psi)$ any factor of type ${\rm I}$
endowed with a faithful normal state and denote by $\Gamma \subset \R^*_+$ the
subgroup generated by the point spectrum of $\psi$. We show that the
centralizer $(L(G) \ast B(H))^{\tau \ast \psi}$ is a type ${\rm II_1}$ factor
and its fundamental group is $\Gamma$. Our proofs rely on Popa's
deformation/rigidity strategy using his intertwining-by-bimodules technique.
  We prove that the average smooth Renyi entropy rate will approach the entropy
rate of a stationary, ergodic information source, which is equal to the Shannon
entropy rate for a classical information source and the von Neumann entropy
rate for a quantum information source.
  We establish a combinatorial connection between the sequence $(i_{n,k})$
counting the involutions on $n$ letters with $k$ descents and the sequence
$(a_{n,k})$ enumerating the semistandard Young tableaux on $n$ cells with $k$
symbols. This allows us to show that the sequences $(i_{n,k})$ are not
log-concave for some values of $n$, hence answering a conjecture due to F.
Brenti.
  We study the transverse Lusternik-Schnirelmann category of a Riemannian
foliation on a compact manifold. We obtain a necessary and sufficient condition
when the transverse LS category is finite. We also introduce a variation on the
concept of transverse LS category, the essential transverse category, and show
that this is finite for every Riemannian foliation and coincides with the
transverse category if the latter is finite. Moreover we prove that the
essential transverse category is a lower bound for the number of critical leaf
closures of a basic differentiable function on M.
  We will provide a lower bound for the equivariant Lusternik-Schnirelmann
category of an arbitrary proper action in terms of the stratification by orbit
types, and an upper bound for proper polar actions in terms of the equivariant
Lusternik-Schnirelmann category of its generalized Weyl group. As an
application we reprove a theorem of Singhof that determines the classical
Lusternik-Schnirelmann category for U(n) and SU(n).
  Consider the first exit time $T_{a,b}$ from a finite interval $[-a,b]$ for an
homogeneous fluctuating functional $X$ of a linear Brownian motion. We show the
existence of a finite positive constant $\k$ such that
$$\lim_{t\to\infty}t^{-1}\log \p[ T_{ab} > t] = -\k.$$ Following Chung's
original approach, we deduce a "liminf" law of the iterated logarithm for the
two-sided supremum of $X$. This extends and gives a new point of view on a
result of Khoshnevisan and Shi.
  Let L be an algebraic set and let g : R^(n+1) \times L --> R^(2n) (n is even)
be a polynomial mapping such that for each l in L there is r(l)>0 such that the
mapping g_l = g(.,l) restricted to the sphere S^n(r) is an immersion for every
0<r<(l), so that the intersection number I(g_l|S^n(r)) is defined. Then the
function which maps l in L to I(g_l|S^n(r)) is algebraically constructible.
  Adapting a method developed for the study of quantum chaos on {\it quantum
(metric)} graphs \cite {KS}, spectral $\zeta$ functions and trace formulae for
{\it discrete} Laplacians on graphs are derived. This is achieved by expressing
the spectral secular equation in terms of the periodic orbits of the graph, and
obtaining functions which belongs to the class of $\zeta$ functions proposed
originally by Ihara \cite {Ihara}, and expanded by subsequent authors \cite
{Stark,Sunada}. Finally, a model of "classical dynamics" on the discrete graph
is proposed. It is analogous to the corresponding classical dynamics derived
for quantum graphs \cite {KS}.
  A suitable notion of hypercontractivity for a nonlinear semigroup $\{T_t\}$
is shown to imply Gagliardo--Nirenberg inequalities for its generator $H$,
provided a subhomogeneity property holds for the energy functional $(u,Hu)$. We
use this fact to prove that, for semigroups generated by operators of
$p$--Laplacian--type, hypercontractivity implies ultracontractivity. We then
introduce the notion of subordinated nonlinear semigroups when the
corresponding Bernstein function is $f(x)=x^\alpha$, and write down an explicit
formula for the associated generator. It is shown that, in certain cases,
hypercontractivity still holds for the subordinated semigroup and, hence, that
Nash--type inequalities holds as well for the subordinated generator.
  The paper contains critical comments to the paper mentioned in the title from
the mathematical point of view
  We develop a method, initially due to Salamon, to compute the space of
``invariant'' forms on an associated bundle X=P\times_G V, with a suitable
notion of invariance. We determine sufficient conditions for this space to be
d-closed. We apply our method to the construction of Calabi-Yau metrics on
TCP^1 and TCP^2.
  We introduce the concept of $\delta$-sequence. A $\delta$-sequence $\Delta$
generates a well-ordered semigroup $S$ in $\mathbb{Z}^2$ or $\mathbb{R}$. We
show how to construct (and compute parameters) for the dual code of any
evaluation code associated with a weight function defined by $\Delta$ from the
polynomial ring in two indeterminates to a semigroup $S$ as above. We prove
that this is a simple procedure which can be understood by considering a
particular class of valuations of function fields of surfaces, called plane
valuations at infinity. We also give algorithms to construct an unlimited
number of $\delta$-sequences of the different existing types, and so this paper
provides the tools to know and use a new large set of codes.
  Integral formulae for polynomial solutions of the quantum
Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov equations associated with the R-matrix of the six-vertex
model are considered. It is proved that when the deformation parameter q is
equal to e^{+- 2 pi i/3} and the number of vertical lines of the lattice is
odd, the solution under consideration is an eigenvector of the inhomogeneous
transfer matrix of the six-vertex model. In the homogeneous limit it is a
ground state eigenvector of the antiferromagnetic XXZ spin chain with the
anisotropy parameter Delta equal to -1/2 and odd number of sites. The obtained
integral representations for the components of this eigenvector allow to prove
some conjectures on its properties formulated earlier. A new statement relating
the ground state components of XXZ spin chains and Temperley-Lieb loop models
is formulated and proved.
  We prove dispersive estimates at low frequency in dimensions n greater or
equal to 4 for the wave equation for a very large class of real-valued
potentials, provided the zero is neither an eigenvalue nor a resonance.
  Taking matrix as a synonym for a numerical function on the Cartesian product
of two (in general, infinite) sets, a simple purely algebraic "reciprocity
property" says that the set of rows spans a finite-dim space iff the set of
columns does so. Similar topological reciprocity properties serve to define
strongly compact and weakly compact matrices, featured in the well-known basic
facts about almost periodic functions and about compact operators. Some
properties, especially for the weak compact case, are investigated, such as the
connection with the matrix having a Fubini-like property for general means.
These are applied to prove possibility of extension to the entire semigroup of
bounded densely defined semigroups of operators in a Banach space with weak
continuity properties.
  We show that algebraic analogues of universal group covers, surjective group
homomorphisms from a $\mathbb{Q}$-vector space to $F^{\times}$ with "standard
kernel", are determined up to isomorphism of the algebraic structure by the
characteristic and transcendence degree of $F$ and, in positive characteristic,
the restriction of the cover to finite fields. This extends the main result of
"Covers of the Multiplicative Group of an Algebraically Closed Field of
Characteristic Zero" (B. Zilber, JLMS 2007), and our proof fills a hole in the
proof given there.
  For the BCS equation with local two-body interaction $\lambda V(x)$, we give
a rigorous analysis of the asymptotic behavior of the critical temperature as
$\lambda \to 0$. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions on $V(x)$ for
the existence of a non-trivial solution for all values of $\lambda>0$.
  Not long ago, Claesson and Mansour proposed some conjectures about the
enumeration of the permutations avoiding more than three Babson - Steingr\'\i
msson patterns (generalized patterns of type $(1,2)$ or $(2,1)$). The avoidance
of one, two or three patterns has already been considered. Here, the cases of
four and five forbidden patterns are solved and the exact enumeration of the
permutations avoiding them is given, confirming the conjectures of Claesson and
Mansour. The approach we use can be easily extended to the cases of more than
five forbidden patterns.
  This paper extends earlier work on quantum theory representations of natural
numbers N, integers I, and rational numbers Ra to describe a space of these
representations and transformations on the space. The space is parameterized by
4-tuple points in a parameter set. Each point, (k,m,h,g), labels a specific
representation of X = N, I, Ra as a Fock space F^{X}_{k,m,h} of states of
finite length strings of qukits q and a string state basis B^{X}_{k,m,h,g}. The
pair (m,h) locates the q string in a square integer lattice I \times I, k is
the q base, and the function g fixes the gauge or basis states for each q. Maps
on the parameter set induce transformations on on the representation space.
There are two shifts, a base change operator W_{k',k}, and a basis or gauge
transformation function U_{k}. The invariance of the axioms and theorems for N,
I, and Ra under any transformation is discussed along with the dependence of
the properties of W_{k',k} on the prime factors of k' and k. This suggests that
one consider prime number q's, q_{2}, q_{3}, q_{5}, etc. as elementary and the
base k q's as composites of the prime number q's.
  A class of generalized complex polynomials of Hermite type, suggested by a
special magnetic Schrodinger operator, is introduced and some related basic
properties are discussed.
  We construct a family of integrable hydrodynamic type systems with three
independent and n>1 dependent variables in terms of solutions of linear system
of PDEs with rational coefficients. We choose the existence of a
pseudopotential as a criterion of integrability. In the case n=2 this family is
a general solution of the classification problem for such systems. We give also
an elliptic analog of this family in the case n>2.
  General analytic energy bounds are derived for N-boson systems governed by
semirelativistic Hamiltonians of the form
  H=\sum_{i=1}^N \sqrt(p_i^2+m^2) + \sum_{1=i<j}^N V(r_{ij}), where V(r) is a
static attractive pair potential. A translation-invariant model Hamiltonian H_c
is constructed. We conjecture that <H> \ge <H_c> generally, and we prove this
for N=3, and for N=4 when m=0. The conjecture is also valid generally for the
harmonic oscillator and in the nonrelativistic large-m limit. This formulation
allows reductions to scaled 3- or 4-body problems, whose spectral bottoms
provide energy lower bounds. The example of the ultrarelativistic linear
potential is studied in detail and explicit upper- and lower-bound formulas are
derived and compared with earlier bounds.
  In this paper, a hierarchical cross-layer design approach is proposed to
increase energy efficiency in ad hoc networks through joint adaptation of
nodes' transmitting powers and route selection. The design maintains the
advantages of the classic OSI model, while accounting for the cross-coupling
between layers, through information sharing. The proposed joint power control
and routing algorithm is shown to increase significantly the overall energy
efficiency of the network, at the expense of a moderate increase in complexity.
Performance enhancement of the joint design using multiuser detection is also
investigated, and it is shown that the use of multiuser detection can increase
the capacity of the ad hoc network significantly for a given level of energy
consumption.
  This paper characterizes the capacity of a class of modulo additive noise
relay channels, in which the relay observes a corrupted version of the noise
and has a separate channel to the destination. The capacity is shown to be
strictly below the cut-set bound in general and achievable using a
quantize-and-forward strategy at the relay. This result confirms a conjecture
by Ahlswede and Han about the capacity of channels with rate limited state
information at the destination for this particular class of channels.
  In this work we show that for every $d < \infty$ and the Ising model defined
on $G(n,d/n)$, there exists a $\beta_d > 0$, such that for all $\beta <
\beta_d$ with probability going to 1 as $n \to \infty$, the mixing time of the
dynamics on $G(n,d/n)$ is polynomial in $n$. Our results are the first
polynomial time mixing results proven for a natural model on $G(n,d/n)$ for $d
> 1$ where the parameters of the model do not depend on $n$. They also provide
a rare example where one can prove a polynomial time mixing of Gibbs sampler in
a situation where the actual mixing time is slower than $n \polylog(n)$. Our
proof exploits in novel ways the local treelike structure of Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi
random graphs, comparison and block dynamics arguments and a recent result of
Weitz.
  Our results extend to much more general families of graphs which are sparse
in some average sense and to much more general interactions. In particular,
they apply to any graph for which every vertex $v$ of the graph has a
neighborhood $N(v)$ of radius $O(\log n)$ in which the induced sub-graph is a
tree union at most $O(\log n)$ edges and where for each simple path in $N(v)$
the sum of the vertex degrees along the path is $O(\log n)$. Moreover, our
result apply also in the case of arbitrary external fields and provide the
first FPRAS for sampling the Ising distribution in this case. We finally
present a non Markov Chain algorithm for sampling the distribution which is
effective for a wider range of parameters. In particular, for $G(n,d/n)$ it
applies for all external fields and $\beta < \beta_d$, where $d \tanh(\beta_d)
= 1$ is the critical point for decay of correlation for the Ising model on
$G(n,d/n)$.
  We give a new moduli construction of the minimal resolution of the
singularity of type 1/r(1,a) by introducing the Special McKay quiver. To
demonstrate that our construction trumps that of the G-Hilbert scheme, we show
that the induced tautological line bundles freely generate the bounded derived
category of coherent sheaves on X by establishing a suitable derived
equivalence. This gives a moduli construction of the Special McKay
correspondence for abelian subgroups of GL(2).
  Let $S$ and $T$ be local rings with common residue field $k$, let $R$ be the
fiber product $S \times_k T$, and let $M$ be an $S$-module. The Poincar\'e
series $P^R_M$ of $M$ has been expressed in terms of $P^S_M$, $P^S_k$ and
$P^T_k$ by Kostrikin and Shafarevich, and by Dress and Kr\"amer. Here, an
explicit minimal resolution, as well as theorems on the structure of
$\Ext_R(k,k)$ and $\Ext_R(M,k)$ are given that illuminate these equalities.
Structure theorems for the cohomology modules of fiber products of modules are
also given. As an application of these results, we compute the depth of
cohomology modules over a fiber product.
  We show that the category of projective modules over a graded commutative
ring admits a triangulation with respect to module suspension if and only if
the ring is a finite product of graded fields and exterior algebras on one
generator over a graded field (with a unit in the appropriate degree). We also
classify the ungraded commutative rings for which the category of projective
modules admits a triangulation with respect to the identity suspension.
Applications to two analogues of the generating hypothesis in algebraic
topology are given, and we translate our results into the setting of modules
over a symmetric ring spectrum or S-algebra.
  The Tracy-Widom distribution functions involve integrals of a Painlev\'e II
function starting from positive infinity. In this paper, we express the
Tracy-Widom distribution functions in terms of integrals starting from minus
infinity. There are two consequences of these new representations. The first is
the evaluation of the total integral of the Hastings-McLeod solution of the
Painlev\'e II equation. The second is the evaluation of the constant term of
the asymptotic expansions of the Tracy-Widom distribution functions as the
distribution parameter approaches minus infinity. For the GUE Tracy-Widom
distribution function, this gives an alternative proof of the recent work of
Deift, Its, and Krasovsky. The constant terms for the GOE and GSE Tracy-Widom
distribution functions are new.
  Simple nonlinear dynamical systems with multiple stable stationary states are
often taken as models for switchlike biological systems. This paper considers
the interaction of multiple such simple multistable systems when they are
embedded together into a larger dynamical "supersystem." Attention is focused
on the network structure of the resulting set of coupled differential
equations, and the consequences of this structure on the propensity of the
embedded switches to act independently versus cooperatively. Specifically, it
is argued that both larger average and larger variance of the node degree
distribution lead to increased switch independence. Given the frequency of
empirical observations of high variance degree distributions (e.g., power-law)
in biological networks, it is suggested that the results presented here may aid
in identifying switch-integrating subnetworks as comparatively homogenous,
low-degree, substructures. Potential applications to ecological problems such
as the relationship of stability and complexity are also briefly discussed.
  A closed Riemannian manifold is said to have cross blocking if whenever
distinct points p and q are at distance less than the diameter, all light rays
from p can be shaded away from q with at most two point shades. Similarly, a
closed Riemannian manifold is said to have sphere blocking if for each point p,
all the light rays from p are shaded away from p by a single point shade. We
prove that Riemannian manifolds with cross and sphere blocking are isometric to
round spheres.
  Capacity improvement from transmitter and receiver cooperation is
investigated in a two-transmitter, two-receiver network with phase fading and
full channel state information available at all terminals. The transmitters
cooperate by first exchanging messages over an orthogonal transmitter
cooperation channel, then encoding jointly with dirty paper coding. The
receivers cooperate by using Wyner-Ziv compress-and-forward over an analogous
orthogonal receiver cooperation channel. To account for the cost of
cooperation, the allocation of network power and bandwidth among the data and
cooperation channels is studied. It is shown that transmitter cooperation
outperforms receiver cooperation and improves capacity over non-cooperative
transmission under most operating conditions when the cooperation channel is
strong. However, a weak cooperation channel limits the transmitter cooperation
rate; in this case receiver cooperation is more advantageous.
Transmitter-and-receiver cooperation offers sizable additional capacity gain
over transmitter-only cooperation at low SNR, whereas at high SNR transmitter
cooperation alone captures most of the cooperative capacity improvement.
  Let B be a unital C*-algebra, let A be a unital subalgebra, and let E be a
conditional expectation from B to A with index-finite type and a quasi-basis of
n elements. Then the topological stable rank satisfies \tsr (B) \leq \tsr (A) +
n - 1. As an application, we show that if a unital inclusion A \subset B of
C*-algebras has index-finite type and finite depth, and A is simple with stable
rank one and Property (SP), then B has cancellation. In particular, if A is a
simple unital C*-algebra with stable rank one and Property (SP), and a finite
group G acts on A, then the crossed product has cancellation. Separately, if
the group is the integers, we obtain cancellation under the additional
hypotheses that the group action is outer and is trivial on K_0 (A).
  This paper proposes a method to address the longstanding problem of lack of
monotonicity in estimation of conditional and structural quantile functions,
also known as the quantile crossing problem. The method consists in sorting or
monotone rearranging the original estimated non-monotone curve into a monotone
rearranged curve. We show that the rearranged curve is closer to the true
quantile curve in finite samples than the original curve, establish a
functional delta method for rearrangement-related operators, and derive
functional limit theory for the entire rearranged curve and its functionals. We
also establish validity of the bootstrap for estimating the limit law of the
the entire rearranged curve and its functionals. Our limit results are generic
in that they apply to every estimator of a monotone econometric function,
provided that the estimator satisfies a functional central limit theorem and
the function satisfies some smoothness conditions. Consequently, our results
apply to estimation of other econometric functions with monotonicity
restrictions, such as demand, production, distribution, and structural
distribution functions. We illustrate the results with an application to
estimation of structural quantile functions using data on Vietnam veteran
status and earnings.
  We introduce multivariate generalizations of the Bernstein-Szego polynomials,
which are associated to the root systems of the complex simple Lie algebras.
The multivariate polynomials in question generalize Macdonald's Hall-Littlewood
polynomials associated with root systems. For the root system of type A1
(corresponding to the Lie algebra SL (2;C)) the classic Bernstein-Szego
polynomials are recovered.
  We prove that a number of classes of separable unital C*-algebras are closed
under crossed products by finite group actions with the Rokhlin property,
including:
  (1) AI algebras, AT algebras, and related classes characterized by direct
limit decompositions using semiprojective building blocks.
  (2) Simple unital AH algebras with slow dimension growth and real rank zero.
  (3) C*-algebras with real rank zero or stable rank one.
  (4) C*-algebras whose quotients all satisfy the Universal Coefficient
Theorem.
  Along the way, we give a systematic treatment of the derivation of direct
limit decompositions from local approximation conditions by homomorphic images
which are not necessarily injective.
  We review Maxwell's multipole vectors, and elucidate some of their
mathematical properties, with emphasis on the application of this tool to the
cosmic microwave background (CMB). In particular, for a completely random
function on the sphere (corresponding to the statistically isotropic Gaussian
model of the CMB), we derive the full probability density function of the
multipole vectors. This function is used to analyze the internal configurations
of the third-year Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe quadrupole and octopole,
and we show the observations are consistent with the Gaussian prediction. A
particular aspect is the planarity of the octopole, which we find not to be
anomalous.
  Bosons and fermions are often written by elements of other algebras. M. Abe
gave a recursive realization of the boson by formal infinite sums of the
canonical generators of the Cuntz algebra ${\cal O}_{\infty}$. We show that
such formal infinite sum always makes sense on a certain dense subspace of any
permutative representation of ${\cal O}_{\infty}$. In this meaning, we can
regard as if the algebra ${\cal B}$ of bosons was a unital $*$-subalgebra of
${\cal O}_{\infty}$ on a given permutative representation by keeping their
unboundedness. By this relation, we compute branching laws arising from
restrictions of representations of ${\cal O}_{\infty}$ on ${\cal B}$. For
example, it is shown that the Fock representation of ${\cal B}$ is given as the
restriction of the standard representation of ${\cal O}_{\infty}$ on ${\cal
B}$.
  In this fourth paper of the series, I clarify the somewhat mysterious
relation between the large class of {\it orientation orbifolds} (with twisted
open-string CFT's at $\hat c=52$) and {\it orientifolds} (with untwisted open
strings at $c=26$), both of which have been associated to division by
world-sheet orientation-reversing automorphisms. In particular -- following a
spectral clue in the previous paper -- I show that, even as an {\it interacting
string system}, a certain half-integer-moded orientation orbifold-string system
is in fact equivalent to the archetypal orientifold. The subtitle of this
paper, that orientation orbifolds include and generalize standard orientifolds,
then follows because there are many other orientation orbifold-string systems
-- with higher fractional modeing -- which are not equivalent to untwisted
string systems.
  For every rational homology 3-sphere with 2-torsion only we construct a
unified invariant (which takes values in a certain cyclotomic completion of a
polynomial ring), such that the evaluation of this invariant at any odd root of
unity provides the SO(3) Witten-Reshetikhin-Turaev invariant at this root and
at any even root of unity the SU(2) quantum invariant. Moreover, this unified
invariant splits into a sum of the refined unified invariants dominating spin
and cohomological refinements of quantum SU(2) invariants. New results on the
Ohtsuki series and the integrality of quantum invariants are the main
applications of our construction.
  A new characterisation of Hamiltonian graphs using f-cutset matrix is
proposed. A new exact polynomial time algorithm for the travelling salesman
problem (TSP) based on this new characterisation is developed. We then define
so called ordered weighted adjacency list for given weighted complete graph and
proceed to the main result of the paper, namely, the exact algorithm based on
utilisation of ordered weighted adjacency list and the simple properties that
any path or circuit must satisfy. This algorithm performs checking of
sub-lists, containing (p-1) entries (edge pairs) for paths and p entries (edge
pairs) for circuits, chosen from ordered adjacency list in a well defined
sequence to determine exactly the shortest Hamiltonian path and shortest
Hamiltonian circuit in a weighted complete graph of p vertices. The procedure
has intrinsic advantage of landing on the desired solution in quickest possible
time and even in worst case in polynomial time. A new characterisation of
shortest Hamiltonian tour for a weighted complete graph satisfying triangle
inequality (i.e. for tours passing through every city on a realistic map of
cities where cities can be taken as points on a Euclidean plane) is also
proposed. Finally, we propose a classical algorithm for unstructured search and
also three new quantum algorithms for unstructured search which exponentially
speed up the searching ability in the unstructured database and discuss its
effect on the NP-Complete problems.
  We determine periodic and aperiodic points of certain piecewise affine maps
in the Euclidean plane. Using these maps, we prove for
$\lambda\in\{\frac{\pm1\pm\sqrt5}2,\pm\sqrt2,\pm\sqrt3\}$ that all integer
sequences $(a_k)_{k\in\mathbb Z}$ satisfying $0\le a_{k-1}+\lambda
a_k+a_{k+1}<1$ are periodic.
  This paper gives a dichotomy theorem for the complexity of computing the
partition function of an instance of a weighted Boolean constraint satisfaction
problem. The problem is parameterised by a finite set F of non-negative
functions that may be used to assign weights to the configurations (feasible
solutions) of a problem instance. Classical constraint satisfaction problems
correspond to the special case of 0,1-valued functions. We show that the
partition function, i.e. the sum of the weights of all configurations, can be
computed in polynomial time if either (1) every function in F is of ``product
type'', or (2) every function in F is ``pure affine''. For every other fixed
set F, computing the partition function is FP^{#P}-complete.
  Suppose that a target function is monotonic, namely, weakly increasing, and
an original estimate of the target function is available, which is not weakly
increasing. Many common estimation methods used in statistics produce such
estimates. We show that these estimates can always be improved with no harm
using rearrangement techniques: The rearrangement methods, univariate and
multivariate, transform the original estimate to a monotonic estimate, and the
resulting estimate is closer to the true curve in common metrics than the
original estimate. We illustrate the results with a computational example and
an empirical example dealing with age-height growth charts.
  We study to what extent group $C^\ast$-algebras are characterized by their
unitary groups. A complete characterization of which Abelian group
$C^\ast$-algebras have isomorphic unitary groups is obtained. We compare these
results with other unitary-related invariants of $C^\ast(\Gamma)$, such as the
$K$-theoretic $K_1(C^\ast(\Gamma))$ and find that $C^\ast$-algebras of
nonisomorphic torsion-free Abelian groups may have isomorphic $K_1$-groups, in
sharp contrast with the well-known fact that $C^\ast(\Gamma)$ (even $\Gamma$)
is characterized by the topological group structure of its unitary group when
$\Gamma $ is torsion-free and Abelian.
  We study Mittag-Leffler conditions on modules providing relative versions of
classical results by Raynaud and Gruson. We then apply our investigations to
several contexts. First of all, we give a new argument for solving the Baer
splitting problem. Moreover, we show that modules arising in cotorsion pairs
satisfy certain Mittag-Leffler conditions. In particular, this implies that
tilting modules satisfy a useful finiteness condition over their endomorphism
ring. In the final section, we focus on a special tilting cotorsion pair
related to the pure-semisimplicity conjecture.
  We introduce a new class of algebras, called reconstruction algebras, and
present some of their basic properties. These non-commutative rings dictate in
every way the process of resolving the Cohen-Macaulay singularities C^2/G where
G is a finite small cyclic subgroup of GL(2,C).
  We give an especially simple proof of a theorem in graph theory that forms
the key part of the solution to a problem in commutative algebra, on how to
characterize the integral closure of a polynomial ring generated by quadratic
monomials.
  We prove Brion's conjecture stating that the closure of the orbit of a
self-normalizing spherical subalgebra in the corresponding Grassmanian is
smooth
  The memory effects on microscopic kinetic systems have been sometimes
modelled by means of the introduction of second order time derivatives in the
macroscopic hydrodynamic equations. One prototypical example is the hyperbolic
modification of the Burgers equation, that has been introduced to clarify the
interplay of hyperbolicity and nonlinear hydrodynamic evolution. Previous
studies suggested the finite time blow-up of this equation, and here we present
a rigorous proof of this fact.
  A new C*-enlargement of a C*-algebra $A$ nested between the local multiplier
algebra $M_{\text{loc}}(A)$ of $A$ and its injective envelope $I(A)$ is
introduced. Various aspects of this maximal C*-algebra of quotients,
$Q_{\text{max}}(A)$, are studied, notably in the setting of AW*-algebras. As a
by-product we obtain a new example of a type I C*-algebra $A$ such that
$M_{\text{loc}}(M_{\text{loc}}(A))\ne M_{\text{loc}}(A)$.
  In this short note we study the existence and number of solutions in the set
of integers ($Z$) and in the set of natural numbers ($N$) of Diopahntine
Equations of second degree with two variables of the general form
$ax^2-by^2=c$.
  It is shown that product BMO of Chang and Fefferman, defined on the product
of Euclidean spaces can be characterized by the multiparameter commutators of
Riesz transforms. This extends a classical one-parameter result of Coifman,
Rochberg, and Weiss, and at the same time extends the work of Lacey and
Ferguson and Lacey and Terwilleger on multiparameter commutators with Hilbert
transforms. The method of proof requires the real-variable methods throughout,
which is new in the multi-parameter context.
  In this paper we examine the structure of Riemannian manifolds with a special
kind of Codazzi tensors. We use them to construct globally hyperbolic
Lorentzian manifolds with complete Cauchy hypersurfaces for any weakly
irreducible holonomy representation with parallel spinors, i.e. with a holonomy
group which is a semidirect product between $\R^{n-2}$ and one of $\1, SU(k),
Sp(1), G_2$ and $Spin(7)$.
  Let K be a self-similar or self-affine set in R^d, let \mu be a self-similar
or self-affine measure on it, and let G be the group of affine maps,
similitudes, isometries or translations of R^d. Under various assumptions (such
as separation conditions or we assume that the transformations are small
perturbations or that K is a so called Sierpinski sponge) we prove theorems of
the following types, which are closely related to each other;
  Non-stability: There exists a constant c<1 such that for every g\in G we have
either \mu(K\cap g(K)) <c \mu(K) or K\subset g(K).
  Measure and topology: For every g\in G we have \mu(K\cap g(K)) > 0 \iff int_K
(K\cap g(K)) is nonempty (where int_K is interior relative to K).
  Extension: The measure \mu has a G-invariant extension to R^d.
  Moreover, in many situations we characterize those g's for which \mu(K\cap
g(K) > 0, and we also get results about those $g$'s for which $g(K)\su K$ or
$g(K)\supset K$ holds.
  The Stanley lattice, Tamari lattice and Kreweras lattice are three remarkable
orders defined on the set of Catalan objects of a given size. These lattices
are ordered by inclusion: the Stanley lattice is an extension of the Tamari
lattice which is an extension of the Kreweras lattice. The Stanley order can be
defined on the set of Dyck paths of size $n$ as the relation of \emph{being
above}. Hence, intervals in the Stanley lattice are pairs of non-crossing Dyck
paths. In a former article, the second author defined a bijection $\Phi$
between pairs of non-crossing Dyck paths and the realizers of triangulations
(or Schnyder woods). We give a simpler description of the bijection $\Phi$.
Then, we study the restriction of $\Phi$ to Tamari's and Kreweras' intervals.
We prove that $\Phi$ induces a bijection between Tamari intervals and minimal
realizers. This gives a bijection between Tamari intervals and triangulations.
We also prove that $\Phi$ induces a bijection between Kreweras intervals and
the (unique) realizers of stack triangulations. Thus, $\Phi$ induces a
bijection between Kreweras intervals and stack triangulations which are known
to be in bijection with ternary trees.
  We investigate the possible character values of torsion units of the
normalized unit group of the integral group ring of Mathieu sporadic group
$M_{22}$. We confirm the Kimmerle conjecture on prime graphs for this group and
specify the partial augmentations for possible counterexamples to the stronger
Zassenhaus conjecture.
  Let G be a Lie group over a local field of positive characteristic which
admits a contractive automorphism f (i.e., the forward iterates f^n(x) of each
group element x converge to the neutral element 1). We show that then G is a
torsion group of finite exponent and nilpotent. We also obtain results
concerning the interplay between contractive automorphisms of Lie groups over
local fields, contractive automorphisms of their Lie algebras, and positive
gradations thereon. Some of the results even extend to Lie groups over
arbitrary complete ultrametric fields.
  In this paper we give a definition of cyclic orthonormal generators (cogs) in
R^N. We give a general canonical form for their expression. Further, we give an
explicit formula for computing the canonical form of any given cog.
  We prove the existence of a close connection between spaces with measured
walls and median metric spaces. We then relate properties (T) and Haagerup
(a-T-menability) to actions on median spaces and on spaces with measured walls.
This allows us to explore the relationship between the classical properties (T)
and Haagerup and their versions using affine isometric actions on $L^p$-spaces.
It also allows us to answer an open problem on a dynamical characterization of
property (T), generalizing results of Robertson-Steger.
  The rotating reference system, two-point correlation functions, and energy
density are used as the basis for investigating thermal effects observed by a
detector rotating through random classical zero-point radiation. The RS
consists of Frenet -Serret orthogonal tetrads where the rotating detector is at
rest and has a constant acceleration vector. The CFs and the energy density at
the rotating reference system should be periodic with rotation period because
CF and energy density measurements is one of the tools the detector can use to
justify the periodicity of its motion. The CFs have been calculated for both
electromagnetic and massless scalar fields in two cases, with and without
taking this periodicity into consideration. It turned out that only periodic
CFs have some thermal features and particularly the Planck's factor with the
temperature T= h w /k . Regarding to the energy density of both electromagnetic
and massless scalar field it is shown that the detector rotating in the
zero-point radiation observes not only this original zero-point radiation but,
above that, also the radiation which would have been observed by an inertial
detector in the thermal bath with the Plank's spectrum at the temperature T.
This effect is masked by factor 2/3(4 gamma^2-1) for the electromagnetic field
and 2/9 (4 gamma ^2-1) for the massless scalar field, where the Lorentz factor
gamma=(1 - v^2 / c^2)^(1/2). Appearance of these masking factors is connected
with the fact that rotation is defined by two parameters, angular velocity w
and the radius of rotation, in contrast with a uniformly accelerated linear
motion which is defined by only one parameter, acceleration a. Our calculations
involve classical point of view only and to the best of our knowledge these
results have not been reported in quantum theory yet.
  We introduce a generalization of the notion of a Koszul algebra, which
includes graded algebras with relations in different degrees, and we establish
some of the basic properties of these algebras. This class is closed under
twists, twisted tensor products, regular central extensions and Ore extensions.
We explore the monomial algebras in this class and we include some well-known
examples of algebras that fall into this class.
  Skew critical problems occur in continuous and discrete nonholonomic
Lagrangian systems. They are analogues of constrained optimization problems,
where the objective is differentiated in directions given by an apriori
distribution, instead of tangent directions to the constraint. We show
semiglobal existence and uniqueness for nondegenerate skew critical problems,
and show that the solutions of two skew critical problems have the same contact
as the problems themselves. Also, we develop some infrastructure that is
necessary to compute with contact order geometrically, directly on manifolds.
  Consider the partition function of a directed polymer in an IID field. We
assume that both tails of the negative and the positive part of the field are
at least as light as exponential. It is a well-known fact that the free energy
of the polymer is equal to a deterministic constant for almost every
realization of the field and that the upper tail of the large deviations is
exponential. The lower tail of the large deviations is typically lighter than
exponential. In this paper we provide a method to obtain estimates on the rate
of decay of the lower tail of the large deviations, which are sharp up to
multiplicative constants. As a consequence, we show that the lower tail of the
large deviations exhibits three regimes, determined according to the tail of
the negative part of the field. Our method is simple to apply and can be used
to cover other oriented and non-oriented models including first/last-passage
percolation and the parabolic Anderson model
  For homomorphism K-->S of commutative rings, where K is Gorenstein and S is
essentially of finite type and flat as a K-module, the property that all
non-trivial fiber rings of K-->S are Gorenstein is characterized in terms of
properties of the cohomology modules Ext_n^{S\otimes_KS}S{S\otimes_KS}.
  This paper has been withdrawn by the author.
  In this paper, we study one kind of stochastic recursive optimal control
problem with the obstacle constraints for the cost function where the cost
function is described by the solution of one reflected backward stochastic
differential equations. We will give the dynamic programming principle for this
kind of optimal control problem and show that the value function is the unique
viscosity solution of the obstacle problem for the corresponding
Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equations.
  The theory of colorful graphs can be developed by working in Galois field
modulo (p), p > 2 and a prime number. The paper proposes a program of possible
conversion of graph theory into a pleasant colorful appearance. We propose to
paint the usual black (indicating presence of an edge) and white (indicating
absence of an edge) edges of graphs using multitude of colors and study their
properties. All colorful graphs considered here are simple, i.e. not having any
multiple edges or self-loops. This paper is an invitation to the program of
generalizing usual graph theory in this direction.
  The ancient unsolved problem of congruent numbers has been reduced to one of
the major questions of contemporary arithmetic: the finiteness of the number of
curves over $\bf Q$ which become isomorphic at every place to a given curve. We
give an elementary introduction to congruent numbers and their conjectural
characterisation, discuss local-to-global issues leading to the finiteness
problem, and list a few results and conjectures in the arithmetic theory of
elliptic curves.
  In this paper we consider the question of whether the doubling character of a
measure supported on a subset of $\RR^m$ determines the regularity of its
support (in a classical sense). This problem was studied by David, Kenig and
Toro for codimension 1 sets under the assumption that the support be flat. Here
we study the higher codimension case and remove the flatness hypothesis.
  This investigation deals with some exact solutions of the equations governing
the steady plane motions of an incompressible third grade fluid by using
complex variables and complex functions. Some of the solutions admit, as
particular cases, all the solutions of Moro et al[1].
  We want to understand he concentration of damage in microfractured elastic
media. Due to the different scallings of the volume and area (or area and
length in two dimensions) the traditional method of homogenization using
periodic arrays of cells seems to fail when applied to the Mumford-Shah
functional and to periodically fractured domains.
  In the present paper we are departing from traditional homogenization. The
main result implies the use of Mumford-Shah energies and leads to an
explanation of the observed concentration of damage in microfractured elastic
bodies.
  The article discusses the interrelation between relative Cuntz-Pimsner
algebras and partial isometric crossed products, and presents a procedure that
reduces any given Hilbert bimodule to the "smallest" Hilbert bimodule yielding
the same relative Cuntz-Pimsner algebra as the initial one. In the context of
crossed products this reduction procedure corresponds to reduction of
C*-dynamical systems.
  For a quantum Hamiltonian H =H(p) the observability of the energies E may be
robust (whenever all E are real at all p) or, otherwise, conditional. Using a
pseudo-Hermitian family of N-state chain models H we discuss some generic
properties of conditionally observable spectra.
  The notion of a Weyl module, previously defined for the untwisted affine
algebras, is extended here to the twisted affine algebras. We describe an
identification of the Weyl modules for the twisted affine algebras with
suitably chosen Weyl modules for the untwisted affine algebras. This
identification allows us to use known results in the untwisted case to compute
the dimensions and characters of the Weyl modules for the twisted algebras.
  For monotone linear differential systems with periodic coefficients, the
(first) Floquet eigenvalue measures the growth rate of the system. We define an
appropriate arithmetico-geometric time average of the coefficients for which we
can prove that the Perron eigenvalue is smaller than the Floquet eigenvalue. We
apply this method to Partial Differential Equations, and we use it for an
age-structured systems of equations for the cell cycle. This opposition between
Floquet and Perron eigenvalues models the loss of circadian rhythms by cancer
cells.
  The idea of graph compositions, which was introduced by A. Knopfmacher and M.
E. Mays, generalizes both ordinary compositions of positive integers and
partitions of finite sets. In their original paper they developed formulas,
generating functions, and recurrence relations for composition counting
functions for several families of graphs. Here we show that some of the results
involving compositions of bipartite graphs can be derived more easily using
exponential generating functions.
  We consider the problem of detecting edges in piecewise smooth functions from
their N-degree spectral content, which is assumed to be corrupted by noise.
There are three scales involved: the "smoothness" scale of order 1/N, the noise
scale of order $\eta$ and the O(1) scale of the jump discontinuities. We use
concentration factors which are adjusted to the noise variance, $\eta$ >> 1/N,
in order to detect the underlying O(1)-edges, which are separated from the
noise scale, $\eta$ << 1.
  A subset of a group is characteristic if it is invariant under every
automorphism of the group. We study word length in fundamental groups of closed
hyperbolic surfaces with respect to characteristic generating sets consisting
of a finite union of orbits of the automorphism group, and show that the
translation length of any element with nonzero crossing number is positive, and
bounded below by a constant depending only (and explicitly) on a bound on the
crossing numbers of generating elements. This answers a question of B. Farb.
  Formal actions of Lie algebras over vector spaces are introduced in a purely
algebraic way, as a mimic of infinitesimal operations of Banach Lie algebras
over Banach analytic manifolds. In analogy with the case of abstract groups,
complete wreath products and triangular actions are then defined for Lie
algebras acting "en cascade" over vector spaces. Finally, a Kaloujnine-Krasner
type theorem for Lie algebra extensions is proved.
  -----
  En mimant les lois d'op\'erations infinit\'esimales des alg\`ebres de Lie sur
les vari\'et\'e s analytiques banachiques, on introduit de mani\`ere purement
alg\`ebrique la notion d'action formelle d'une alg\`ebre de Lie sur un espace
vectoriel. Ensuite, par analogie avec le cas des groupes abstraits, et en
faisant op\'erer les alg\`ebres de Lie "en cascade", on d\'efinit produit
d'entrelacement ("wreath product") et action triangulaire pour les alg\`ebres
de Lie. On d\'emontre enfin un th\'eor\`eme du type Kaloujnine-Krasner pour les
extensions d'alg\`ebres de Lie.
  A {\bf map} is a graph that admits an orientation of its edges so that each
vertex has out-degree exactly 1. We characterize graphs which admit a
decomposition into $k$ edge-disjoint maps after: (1) the addition of {\it any}
$\ell$ edges; (2) the addition of {\it some} $\ell$ edges. These graphs are
identified with classes of {\it sparse} graphs; the results are also given in
matroidal terms.
  Let M be an o-minimal structure with elimination of imaginaries, N an
unstable structure definable in M. Then there exists X, interpretable in N,
such that X with all the structure induced from N is o-minimal. In particular X
is linearly ordered.
  As part of the proof we show: Theorem 1: If the M-dimenson of N is 1 then any
1-N-type is either strongly stable or finite by o-minimal. Theorem 2: If N is
N-minimal then it is 1-M-dimensional.
  We consider the problem of wave propagation for a 2-D rectilinear optical
waveguide which presents some perturbation. We construct a mathematical
framework to study such a problem and prove the existence of a solution for the
case of small imperfections. Our results are based on the knowledge of a
Green's function for the rectilinear case.
  Surprisingly, skew derivations rather than ordinary derivations are more
basic (important) object in study of the Grassmann algebras. Let $\L_n =
K\lfloor x_1, ..., x_n\rfloor$ be the Grassmann algebra over a commutative ring
$K$ with ${1/2}\in K$, and $\d$ be a skew $K$-derivation of $\L_n$. It is
proved that $\d$ is a unique sum $\d = \d^{ev} +\d^{od}$ of an even and odd
skew derivation. Explicit formulae are given for $\d^{ev}$ and $\d^{od}$ via
the elements $\d (x_1), ..., \d (x_n)$. It is proved that the set of all even
skew derivations of $\L_n$ coincides with the set of all the inner skew
derivations. Similar results are proved for derivations of $\L_n$. In
particular, $\Der_K(\L_n)$ is a faithful but not simple $\Aut_K(\L_n)$-module
(where $K$ is reduced and $n\geq 2$). All differential and skew differential
ideals of $\L_n$ are found. It is proved that the set of generic normal
elements of $\L_n$ that are not units forms a single $\Aut_K(\L_n)$-orbit
(namely, $\Aut_K(\L_n)x_1$) if $n$ is even and two orbits (namely,
$\Aut_K(\L_n)x_1$ and $\Aut_K(\L_n)(x_1+x_2... x_n)$) if $n$ is odd.
  We provide the definition and fundamental properties of algebraic elements
with respect to an operator satisfying hypothesis (h). Furthermore, we analyze
Hilbert modules using C_0-operators relative to a bounded finitely connected
region Omega in the complex plane.
  We show that finite-dimensional Lie algebras over a field of characteristic
zero such that the second cohomology group in every finite-dimensional module
vanishes, are, essentially, semisimple.
  We provide $L^1$ estimates for a class of transport equations containing
singular integral operators. While our main application is for a specific
problem in General Relativity we believe that the phenomenon which our result
illustrates is of a more general interest.
  We present the evaluation of a family of logarithmic integrals. This provides
a unified proof of several formulas in the classical table of integrals by I.
S. Gradshteyn and I. M. Rhyzik.
  We describe methods to evaluate elementary logarithmic integrals. The
integrand is the product of a rational function and a linear polynomial in ln
x.
  Controlled Lagrangian and matching techniques are developed for the
stabilization of relative equilibria and equilibria of discrete mechanical
systems with symmetry as well as broken symmetry. Interesting new phenomena
arise in the controlled Lagrangian approach in the discrete context that are
not present in the continuous theory. In particular, to make the discrete
theory effective, one can make an appropriate selection of momentum levels or,
alternatively, introduce a new parameter into the controlled Lagrangian to
complete the kinetic matching procedure. Specifically, new terms in the
controlled shape equation that are necessary for potential matching in the
discrete setting are introduced. The theory is illustrated with the problem of
stabilization of the cart-pendulum system on an incline. The paper also
discusses digital and model predictive controllers.
  Classification of groups generated by 3-state automata over a 2-letter
alphabet started in the first paper (see http://www.arxiv.org/abs/math/0612178)
is continued.
  A game-theoretic framework is used to study the effect of constellation size
on the energy efficiency of wireless networks for M-QAM modulation. A
non-cooperative game is proposed in which each user seeks to choose its
transmit power (and possibly transmit symbol rate) as well as the constellation
size in order to maximize its own utility while satisfying its delay
quality-of-service (QoS) constraint. The utility function used here measures
the number of reliable bits transmitted per joule of energy consumed, and is
particularly suitable for energy-constrained networks. The best-response
strategies and Nash equilibrium solution for the proposed game are derived. It
is shown that in order to maximize its utility (in bits per joule), a user must
choose the lowest constellation size that can accommodate the user's delay
constraint. Using this framework, the tradeoffs among energy efficiency, delay,
throughput and constellation size are also studied and quantified. The effect
of trellis-coded modulation on energy efficiency is also discussed.
  A game-theoretic model is proposed to study the cross-layer problem of joint
power and rate control with quality of service (QoS) constraints in
multiple-access networks. In the proposed game, each user seeks to choose its
transmit power and rate in a distributed manner in order to maximize its own
utility while satisfying its QoS requirements. The user's QoS constraints are
specified in terms of the average source rate and an upper bound on the average
delay where the delay includes both transmission and queuing delays. The
utility function considered here measures energy efficiency and is particularly
suitable for wireless networks with energy constraints. The Nash equilibrium
solution for the proposed non-cooperative game is derived and a closed-form
expression for the utility achieved at equilibrium is obtained. It is shown
that the QoS requirements of a user translate into a "size" for the user which
is an indication of the amount of network resources consumed by the user. Using
this competitive multiuser framework, the tradeoffs among throughput, delay,
network capacity and energy efficiency are studied. In addition, analytical
expressions are given for users' delay profiles and the delay performance of
the users at Nash equilibrium is quantified.
  A unified approach to energy-efficient power control is proposed for
code-division multiple access (CDMA) networks. The approach is applicable to a
large family of multiuser receivers including the matched filter, the
decorrelator, the linear minimum mean-square error (MMSE) receiver, and the
(nonlinear) optimal detectors. It exploits the linear relationship that has
been shown to exist between the transmit power and the output
signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SIR) in the large-system limit. It is
shown that, for this family of receivers, when users seek to selfishly maximize
their own energy efficiency, the Nash equilibrium is SIR-balanced. In addition,
a unified power control (UPC) algorithm for reaching the Nash equilibrium is
proposed. The algorithm adjusts the user's transmit powers by iteratively
computing the large-system multiuser efficiency, which is independent of
instantaneous spreading sequences. The convergence of the algorithm is proved
for the matched filter, the decorrelator, and the MMSE receiver, and is
demonstrated by means of simulation for an optimal detector. Moreover, the
performance of the algorithm in finite-size systems is studied and compared
with that of a conventional power control scheme, in which user powers depend
on the instantaneous spreading sequences.
  The paper is devoted to classification problem of finite dimensional complex
none Lie filiform Leibniz algebras. Actually, the observations show there are
two resources to get classification of filiform Leibniz algebras. The first of
them is naturally graded none Lie filiform Leibniz algebras and the another one
is naturally graded filiform Lie algebras. Using the first resource we get two
disjoint classes of filiform Leibniz algebras. The present paper deals with the
second of the above two classes, the first class has been considered in our
previous paper. The algebraic classification here means to specify the
representatives of the orbits, whereas the geometric classification is the
problem of finding generic structural constants in the sense of algebraic
geometry. Our main effort in this paper is the algebraic classification. We
suggest here an algebraic method based on invariants. Utilizing this method for
any given low dimensional case all filiform Leibniz algebras can be classified.
Moreover, the results can be used for geometric classification of orbits of
such algebras.
  In this note we give a direct method to classify all stable forms on $\R^n$
as well as to determine their automorphism groups. We show that in dimension
6,7,8 stable forms coincide with non-degnerate forms.
  We present necessary conditions and sufficient conditions for a manifold to
admit a stable form. We also discuss rich properties of the geometry of such
manifolds.
  In this note we introduce parameterized Gromov-Witten invariants for
symplectic fiber bundles and study the topology of the symplectomorphism group.
We also give sample applications showing the non-triviality of certain homotopy
groups of some symplectomorphism groups.
  Nonconvex functionals with spherical symmetry are studied. Existence of one
and radial symmetry of all global minimizers is shown with an approach based on
convex relaxation.
  We examine the total number of collisions $C_n$ in the $\Lambda$-coalescent
process which starts with $n$ particles. A linear growth and a stable limit law
for $C_n$ are shown under the assumption of a power-like behaviour of the
measure $\Lambda$ near 0 with exponent $0<\alpha<1$.
  In 1999, Iwan Duursma defined the zeta function for a linear code as a
generating function of its Hamming weight enumerator. It can also be defined
for other homogeneous polynomials not corresponding to existing codes. If the
homogeneous polynomial is invariant under the MacWilliams transform, then its
zeta function satisfies a functional equation and we can formulate an analogue
of the Riemann hypothesis. As far as existing codes are concerned, the Riemann
hypothesis is believed to be closely related to the extremal property.
  In this article, we show there are abundant polynomials invariant by the
MacWilliams transform which satisfy the Riemann hypothesis. The proof is
carried out by explicit construction of such polynomials. To prove the Riemann
hypothesis for a certain class of invariant polynomials, we establish an
analogue of the Enestr"om-Kakeya theorem.
  Let $K$ be a compact metrizable group and $\Ga$ be a group of automorphisms
of $K$. We first show that each $\ap \in \Ga$ is distal on $K$ implies $\Ga$
itself is distal on $K$, a local to global correspondence provided $\Ga$ is a
generalized $\ov{FC}$-group or $K$ is a connected finite-dimensional group. We
show that $\Ga$ contains an ergodic automorphism when $\Ga$ is nilpotent and
ergodic on a connected finite-dimensional compact abelian group $K$.
  Let X be a smooth complex Fano variety. We define and study 'quasi
elementary' contractions of fiber type f: X -> Y. These have the property that
rho(X) is at most rho(Y)+rho(F), where rho is the Picard number and F is a
general fiber of f. In particular any elementary extremal contraction of fiber
type is quasi elementary. We show that if Y has dimension at most 3 and Picard
number at least 4, then Y is smooth and Fano; if moreover rho(Y) is at least 6,
then X is a product. This yields sharp bounds on rho(X) when dim(X)=4 and X has
a quasi elementary contraction, and other applications in higher dimensions.
  We present a proof for the Gehring lemma in a metric measure space endowed
with a doubling measure. As an application we show the self improving property
of Muckenhoupt weights.
  In this paper, we establish two new types of invariant sets for the coupled
nonlinear Schrodinger system on $\mathbb{R}^n$, and derive two sharp thresholds
of blow-up and global existence for its solution. Some analogous results for
the nonlinear Schrodinger system posed on the hyperbolic space $\mathbb{H}^n$
and on the standard 2-sphere $\mathbb{S}^2$ are also presented. Our arguments
and constructions are improvements of some previous works on this direction. At
the end, we give some heuristic analysis about the strong instability of the
solitary waves.
  We consider a one-dimensional jumping Markov process $\{X^x_t\}_{t \geq 0}$,
solving a Poisson-driven stochastic differential equation. We prove that the
law of $X^x_t$ admits a smooth density for $t>0$, under some regularity and
non-degeneracy assumptions on the coefficients of the S.D.E. To our knowledge,
our result is the first one including the important case of a non-constant rate
of jump. The main difficulty is that in such a case, the map $x \mapsto X^x_t$
is not smooth. This seems to make impossible the use of Malliavin calculus
techniques. To overcome this problem, we introduce a new method, in which the
propagation of the smoothness of the density is obtained by analytic arguments.
  If $G_1,...,G_n$ are limit groups and $S\subset G_1\times...\times G_n$ is of
type $\FP_n(\mathbb Q)$ then $S$ contains a subgroup of finite index that is
itself a direct product of at most $n$ limit groups. This settles a question of
Sela.
  We are interested to the multifractal analysis of inhomogeneous Bernoulli
products which are also known as coin tossing measures. We give conditions
ensuring the validity of the multifractal formalism for such measures. On
another hand, we show that these measures can have a dense set of phase
transitions.
  We develop the Ercolani-Sinha construction of SU(2) monopoles and make this
effective for (a five parameter family of centred) charge 3 monopoles. In
particular we show how to solve the transcendental constraints arising on the
spectral curve. For a class of symmetric curves the transcendental constraints
become a number theoretic problem and a recently proven identity of Ramanujan
provides a solution.
  We show that if a co-dimension two knot is deform-spun from a
lower-dimensional co-dimension 2 knot, there are constraints on the Alexander
polynomials. In particular this shows, for all n, that not all co-dimension 2
knots in S^n are deform-spun from knots in S^{n-1}.
  We extend Geisser and Hesselholt's result on ``bi-relative K-theory'' from
discrete rings to connective ring spectra. That is, if $\mathcal A$ is a
homotopy cartesian $n$-cube of ring spectra (satisfying connectivity
hypotheses), then the $(n+1)$-cube induced by the cyclotomic trace $$K(\mathcal
A)\to TC(\mathcal A)$$ is homotopy cartesian after profinite completion. In
other words, the fiber of the profinitely completed cyclotomic trace satisfies
excision.
  Ramification invariants are necessary, but not in general sufficient, to
determine the Galois module structure of ideals in local number field
extensions. This insufficiency is associated with elementary abelian
extensions, where one can define a refined ramification filtration -- one with
more ramification breaks [JNTB 17 (2005)]. The first refined break number comes
from the usual ramification filtration and is therefore necessary. Here we
study the second refined break number.
  The asymptotic behaviour of the solutions of Poincar\'e's functional equation
  $f(\lambda z)=p(f(z))$ ($\lambda>1$) for $p$ a real polynomial of degree
  $\geq2$ is studied in angular regions of the complex plain. The constancy of
an occurring periodic function is characterised in terms of geometric
properties of the Julia set of $p$. For real Julia sets we give inequalities
for multipliers of Pommerenke-Levin-Yoccoz type. The distribution of zeros of
$f$ is related to the harmonic measure on the Julia set of $p$.
  One proves a Beilinson-Bernstein theorem in the context of arithmetic
D-modules introduced by Berthelot, for flag varieties. This generalizes in the
arithmetic context previous results of Brylinski-Kashiwara and
Beilinson-Bernstein in the complex case.
  In this two-part paper, we consider the multiantenna multihop relay channels
in which the source signal arrives at the destination through N independent
relaying hops in series. The main concern of this work is to design relaying
strategies that utilize efficiently the relays in such a way that the diversity
is maximized. In part I, we focus on the amplify-and-forward (AF) strategy with
which the relays simply scale the received signal and retransmit it. More
specifically, we characterize the diversity-multiplexing tradeoff (DMT) of the
AF scheme in a general multihop channel with arbitrary number of antennas and
arbitrary number of hops. The DMT is in closed-form expression as a function of
the number of antennas at each node. First, we provide some basic results on
the DMT of the general Rayleigh product channels. It turns out that these
results have very simple and intuitive interpretation. Then, the results are
applied to the AF multihop channels which is shown to be equivalent to the
Rayleigh product channel, in the DMT sense. Finally, the project-and-forward
(PF) scheme, a variant of the AF scheme, is proposed. We show that the PF
scheme has the same DMT as the AF scheme, while the PF can have significant
power gain over the AF scheme in some cases. In part II, we will derive the
upper bound on the diversity of the multihop channels and show that it can be
achieved by partitioning the multihop channel into AF subchannels.
  Suppose $\Gamma$ is a Carleson Jordan curve with logarithmic whirl points,
  $\varrho$ is a Khvedelidze weight, $p:\Gamma\to(1,\infty)$ is a continuous
function satisfying $|p(\tau)-p(t)|\le -\mathrm{const}/\log|\tau-t|$ for
$|\tau-t|\le 1/2$, and $L^{p(\cdot)}(\Gamma,\varrho)$ is a weighted generalized
Lebesgue space with variable exponent. We prove that all semi-Fredholm
operators in the algebra of singular integral operators with $N\times N$ matrix
piecewise continuous coefficients are Fredholm on
$L_N^{p(\cdot)}(\Gamma,\varrho)$.
  It is known since 1973 that Lawvere's notion of (Cauchy-)complete enriched
category is meaningful for metric spaces: it captures exactly Cauchy-complete
metric spaces. In this paper we introduce the corresponding notion of Lawvere
completeness for $(\mathbb{T},\mathsf{V})$-categories and show that it has an
interesting meaning for topological spaces and quasi-uniform spaces: for the
former ones means weak sobriety while for the latter means Cauchy completeness.
Further, we show that $\mathsf{V}$ has a canonical
$(\mathbb{T},\mathsf{V})$-category structure which plays a key role: it is
Lawvere-complete under reasonable conditions on the setting; permits us to
define a Yoneda embedding in the realm of $(\mathbb{T},\mathsf{V})$-categories.
  We study cohomological induction for a pair $(\frak g,\frak k)$, $\frak g$
being an infinite dimensional locally reductive Lie algebra and $\frak k
\subset\frak g$ being of the form $\frak k_0 + C_\gg(\frak k_0)$, where $\frak
k_0\subset\frak g$ is a finite dimensional reductive in $\frak g$ subalgebra
and $C_{\gg} (\frak k_0)$ is the centralizer of $\frak k_0$ in $\frak g$. We
prove a general non-vanishing and $\frak k$-finiteness theorem for the output.
This yields in particular simple $(\frak g,\frak k)$-modules of finite type
over $\frak k$ which are analogs of the fundamental series of generalized
Harish-Chandra modules constructed in \cite{PZ1} and \cite{PZ2}. We study
explicit versions of the construction when $\frak g$ is a root-reductive or
diagonal locally simple Lie algebra.
  The mean curvature flow describes the parabolic deformation of embedded
branes in Riemannian geometry driven by their extrinsic mean curvature vector,
which is typically associated to surface tension forces. It is the gradient
flow of the area functional, and, as such, it is naturally identified with the
boundary renormalization group equation of Dirichlet sigma models away from
conformality, to lowest order in perturbation theory. D-branes appear as fixed
points of this flow having conformally invariant boundary conditions. Simple
running solutions include the paper-clip and the hair-pin (or grim-reaper)
models on the plane, as well as scaling solutions associated to rational (p, q)
closed curves and the decay of two intersecting lines. Stability analysis is
performed in several cases while searching for transitions among different
brane configurations. The combination of Ricci with the mean curvature flow is
examined in detail together with several explicit examples of deforming curves
on curved backgrounds. Some general aspects of the mean curvature flow in
higher dimensional ambient spaces are also discussed and obtain consistent
truncations to lower dimensional systems. Selected physical applications are
mentioned in the text, including tachyon condensation in open string theory and
the resistive diffusion of force-free fields in magneto-hydrodynamics.
  A generalized geometric method is developed for constructing exact solutions
of gravitational field equations in Einstein theory and generalizations. First,
we apply the formalism of nonholonomic frame deformations (formally considered
for nonholonomic manifolds and Finsler spaces) when the gravitational field
equations transform into systems of nonlinear partial differential equations
which can be integrated in general form. The new classes of solutions are
defined by generic off-diagonal metrics depending on integration functions on
one, two and three (or three and four) variables if we consider four (or five)
dimensional spacetimes. Second, we use a general scheme when one (two)
parameter families of exact solutions are defined by any source-free solutions
of Einstein's equations with one (two) Killing vector field(s). A successive
iteration procedure results in new classes of solutions characterized by an
infinite number of parameters for a non-Abelian group involving arbitrary
functions on one variable. Five classes of exact off-diagonal solutions are
constructed in vacuum Einstein and in string gravity describing solitonic
pp-wave interactions. We explore possible physical consequences of such
solutions derived from primary Schwarzschild or pp-wave metrics.
  Building on work of Elliott and coworkers, we present three applications of
the Cuntz semigroup: (i) for many simple C$^*$-algebras, the Thomsen semigroup
is recovered functorially from the Elliott invariant, and this yields a new
proof of Elliott's classification theorem for simple, unital AI algebras; (ii)
for the algebras in (i), classification of their Hilbert modules is similar to
the von Neumann algebra context; (iii) for the algebras in (i), approximate
unitary equivalence of self-adjoint operators is characterised in terms of the
Elliott invariant.
  A nonlinear parabolic differential equation with a quadratic nonlinearity is
presented which has at least one equilibrium. The linearization about this
equilibrium is asymptotically stable, but by using a technique inspired by H.
Fujita, we show that the equilibrium is unstable in the nonlinear setting. The
perturbations used have the property that they are small in every $L^p$ norm,
yet they result in solutions which fail to be global.
  In this paper we show that the tangent cone of a conflict set in $R^n$ is a
linear affine cone over a conflict set of smaller dimension and has dimension
$n-1$. Moreover we give an example where the conflict sets is not normally
embedded and not locally bi-Lipschitz equivalent to the corresponding tangent
cone.
  Consider genus $g$ curves that admit degree $d$ covers to elliptic curves
only branched at one point with a fixed ramification type. The locus of such
covers forms a one parameter family $Y$ that naturally maps into the moduli
space of stable genus $g$ curves $\bar{\mathcal M}_{g}$. We study the geometry
of $Y$, and produce a combinatorial method by which to investigate its slope,
irreducible components, genus and orbifold points. As a by-product of our
approach, we find some equalities from classical number theory. Moreover, a
correspondence between our method and the viewpoint of square-tiled surfaces is
established. We also use our results to study the lower bound for slopes of
effective divisors on $\bar{\mathcal M}_{g}$.
  Cocycles are constructed by polynomial expressions for Alexander quandles. As
applications, non-triviality of some quandle homology groups are proved, and
quandle cocycle invariants of knots are studied. In particular, for an infinite
family of quandles, the non-triviality of quandle homology groups is proved for
all odd dimensions.
  We show that it is relatively consistent with ZF that the Borel hierarchy on
the reals has length $\omega_2$. This implies that $\omega_1$ has countable
cofinality, so the axiom of choice fails very badly in our model. A similar
argument produces models of ZF in which the Borel hierarchy has length any
given limit ordinal less than $\omega_2$, e.g., $\omega$ or
$\omega_1+\omega_1$.
  Latex2e: 24 pages plus 8 page appendix Latest version at:
www.math.wisc.edu/~miller
  In this paper we completely classify which graded polynomial R-algebras in
finitely many even degree variables can occur as the singular cohomology of a
space with coefficients in R, a 1960 question of N. E. Steenrod, for a
commutative ring R satisfying mild conditions. In the fundamental case R = Z,
our result states that the only polynomial cohomology rings over Z which can
occur, are tensor products of copies of H^*(CP^\infty;Z) = Z[x_2],
H^*(BSU(n);Z) = Z[x_4,x_6,...,x_{2n}], and H^*(BSp(n):Z) =
Z[x_4,x_8,...,x_{4n}] confirming an old conjecture. Our classification extends
Notbohm's solution for R = F_p, p odd. Odd degree generators, excluded above,
only occur if R is an F_2-algebra and in that case the recent classification of
2-compact groups by the authors can be used instead of the present paper. Our
proofs are short and rely on the general theory of p-compact groups, but not on
classification results for these.
  This paper is dedicated to triangulated categories endowed with weight
structures (a new notion; D. Pauksztello has independently introduced them as
co-t-structures). This axiomatizes the properties of stupid truncations of
complexes in $K(B)$. We also construct weight structures for Voevodsky's
categories of motives and for various categories of spectra. A weight structure
$w$ defines Postnikov towers of objects; these towers are canonical and
functorial 'up to morphisms that are zero on cohomology'. For $Hw$ being the
heart of $w$ (in $DM_{gm}$ we have $Hw=Chow$) we define a canonical
conservative 'weakly exact' functor $t$ from our $C$ to a certain weak category
of complexes $K_w(Hw)$. For any (co)homological functor $H:C\to A$ for an
abelian $A$ we construct a weight spectral sequence $T:H(X^i[j])\implies
H(X[i+j])$ where $(X^i)=t(X)$; it is canonical and functorial starting from
$E_2$. This spectral sequences specializes to the 'usual' (Deligne's) weight
spectral sequences for 'classical' realizations of motives and to
Atiyah-Hirzebruch spectral sequences for spectra. Under certain restrictions,
we prove that $K_0(C)\cong K_0(Hw)$ and $K_0(End C)\cong K_0(End Hw)$.
  The definition of a weight structure is almost dual to those of a
t-structure; yet several properties differ. One can often construct a certain
$t$-structure which is 'adjacent' to $w$ and vice versa. This is the case for
the Voevodsky's $DM^{eff}_-$ (one obtains certain new Chow weight and
t-structures for it; the heart of the latter is 'dual' to $Chow^{eff}$) and for
the stable homotopy category. The Chow t-structure is closely related to
unramified cohomology.
  The combination of the compactness of networks, featuring small diameters,
and their complex architectures results in a variety of critical effects
dramatically different from those in cooperative systems on lattices. In the
last few years, researchers have made important steps toward understanding the
qualitatively new critical phenomena in complex networks. We review the
results, concepts, and methods of this rapidly developing field. Here we mostly
consider two closely related classes of these critical phenomena, namely
structural phase transitions in the network architectures and transitions in
cooperative models on networks as substrates. We also discuss systems where a
network and interacting agents on it influence each other. We overview a wide
range of critical phenomena in equilibrium and growing networks including the
birth of the giant connected component, percolation, k-core percolation,
phenomena near epidemic thresholds, condensation transitions, critical
phenomena in spin models placed on networks, synchronization, and
self-organized criticality effects in interacting systems on networks. We also
discuss strong finite size effects in these systems and highlight open problems
and perspectives.
  Necessary and sufficient conditions are given for a satellite knot to be
fibered. Any knot $\tilde k$ embeds in an unknotted solid torus $\tilde V$ with
arbitrary winding number in such a way that no satellite knot with pattern
$(\tilde V, \tilde k)$ is fibered. In particular, there exist nonfibered
satellite knots with fibered pattern and companion knots and nonzero winding
number.
  Using a local construction from a previous paper, we exhibit a numerical
invariant, the differential Swan conductor, for an isocrystal on a variety over
a perfect field of positive characteristic overconvergent along a boundary
divisor; this leads to an analogous construction for certain p-adic and l-adic
representations of the etale fundamental group of a variety. We then
demonstrate some variational properties of this definition for overconvergent
isocrystals, paying special attention to the case of surfaces.
  We elaborate an unified geometric approach to classical mechanics,
Riemann-Finsler spaces and gravity theories on Lie algebroids provided with
nonlinear connection (N-connection) structure. There are investigated the
conditions when the fundamental geometric objects like the anchor, metric and
linear connection, almost sympletic and related almost complex structures may
be canonically defined by a N-connection induced from a regular Lagrangian (or
Hamiltonian), in mechanical models, or by generic off-diagonal metric terms and
nonholonomic frames, in gravity theories. Such geometric constructions are
modelled on nonholonomic manifolds provided with nonintegrable distributions
and related chains of exact sequences of submanifolds defining N-connections.
We investigate the main properties of the Lagrange, Hamilton, Finsler-Riemann
and Einstein-Cartan algebroids and construct and analyze exact solutions
describing such objects.
  We survey the impact of the Poincar\'e recurrence principle in ergodic
theory, especially as pertains to the field of ergodic Ramsey theory.
  We show that bi-Lipschitz conjugacies between non singular one dimensional
systems are forced to be smooth, at least in the minimal (and ergodic) case.
This is however far from being true in the non minimal case. These results
clarify a classical work by Ghys and Tsuboi.
  In this paper, we enumerate prime graphs with respect to the Cartesian
multiplication of graphs. We use the unique factorization of a connected graph
into the product of prime graphs given by Sabidussi to find explicit formulas
for labeled and unlabeled prime graphs. In the case of species, we construct
the exponential composition of species based on the arithmetic product of
species of Maia and M\'endez and the quotient species, and express the species
of connected graphs as the exponential composition of the species of prime
graphs.
  We construct a local in time, exponentially decaying solution of the
one-dimensional variable coefficient Schrodinger equation by solving a
nonstandard boundary value problem. A main ingredient in the proof is a new
commutator estimate involving the projections P+ and P- onto the positive and
negative frequencies.
  Point-determining graphs are graphs in which no two vertices have the same
neighborhoods, co-point-determining graphs are those whose complements are
point-determining, and bi-point-determining graphs are those both
point-determining and co-point-determining. Bicolored point-determining graphs
are point-determining graphs whose vertices are properly colored with white and
black. We use the combinatorial theory of species to enumerate these graphs as
well as the connected cases.
  This paper examines the joint problem of detection and identification of a
sudden and unobservable change in the probability distribution function (pdf)
of a sequence of independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) random
variables to one of finitely many alternative pdf's. The objective is quick
detection of the change and accurate inference of the ensuing pdf. Following a
Bayesian approach, a new sequential decision strategy for this problem is
revealed and is proven optimal. Geometrical properties of this strategy are
demonstrated via numerical examples.
  In this paper, memories built from components subject to transient faults are
considered. A fault-tolerant memory architecture based on low-density
parity-check codes is proposed and the existence of reliable memories for the
adversarial failure model is proved. The proof relies on the expansion property
of the underlying Tanner graph of the code. An equivalence between the
Taylor-Kuznetsov (TK) scheme and Gallager B algorithm is established and the
results are extended to the independent failure model. It is also shown that
the proposed memory architecture has lower redundancy compared to the TK
scheme. The results are illustrated with specific numerical examples.
  We formulate a general super duality conjecture on connections between
parabolic categories O of modules over Lie superalgebras and Lie algebras of
type A, based on a Fock space formalism of their Kazhdan-Lusztig theories which
was initiated by Brundan. We show that the Brundan-Kazhdan-Lusztig (BKL)
polynomials for Lie superalgebra gl(m|n) in our parabolic setup can be
identified with the usual parabolic Kazhdan-Lusztig polynomials. We establish
some special cases of the BKL conjecture on the parabolic category O of
gl(m|n)-modules and additional results which support the BKL conjecture and
super duality conjecture.
  We show that the mutual fund theorems of Merton (1971) extend to the problem
of optimal investment to minimize the probability of lifetime ruin. We obtain
two such theorems by considering a financial market both with and without a
riskless asset for random consumption. The striking result is that we obtain
two-fund theorems despite the additional source of randomness from consumption.
  Let G be a smooth algebraic group acting on a variety X. Let F and E be
coherent sheaves on X. We show that if all the higher Tor sheaves of F against
G-orbits vanish, then for generic g in G, the sheaf Tor^X_j(gF, E) vanishes for
all j >0. This generalizes a result of Miller and Speyer for transitive group
actions and a result of Speiser, itself generalizing the classical
Kleiman-Bertini theorem, on generic transversality, under a general group
action, of smooth subvarieties over an algebraically closed field of
characteristic 0.
  In a recent paper (math.DG/0701278) we constructed a series of new Moishezon
twistor spaces which is a kind of variant of the famous LeBrun twistor spaces.
In this paper we explicitly give projective models of another series of
Moishezon twistor spaces on nCP^2 for arbitrary n>2, which can be regarded as a
generalization of the twistor spaces of a 'double solid type' on 3CP^2 studied
by Kreussler, Kurke, Poon and the author. Similarly to the twistor spaces of
'double solid type' on 3CP^2, projective models of present twistor spaces have
a natural structure of double covering of a CP^2-bundle over CP^1. We
explicitly give a defining polynomial of the branch divisor of the double
covering whose restriction to fibers are degree four. If n>3 these are new
twistor spaces, to the best of the author's knowledge. We also compute the
dimension of the moduli space of these twistor spaces. Differently from
math.DG/0701278, the present investigation is based on analysis of
pluri-(half-)anticanonical systems of the twistor spaces.
  Green and Tao proved that the primes contains arbitrarily long arithmetic
progressions. We show that, essentially the same proof leads to the following
result: The primes in an short interval contains many arithmetic progressions
of any given length.
  We study semiparametric efficiency bounds and efficient estimation of
parameters defined through general moment restrictions with missing data.
Identification relies on auxiliary data containing information about the
distribution of the missing variables conditional on proxy variables that are
observed in both the primary and the auxiliary database, when such distribution
is common to the two data sets. The auxiliary sample can be independent of the
primary sample, or can be a subset of it. For both cases, we derive bounds when
the probability of missing data given the proxy variables is unknown, or known,
or belongs to a correctly specified parametric family. We find that the
conditional probability is not ancillary when the two samples are independent.
For all cases, we discuss efficient semiparametric estimators. An estimator
based on a conditional expectation projection is shown to require milder
regularity conditions than one based on inverse probability weighting.
  We prove that the Cox ring of $\bar{M}_{0,6}$, the moduli space of stable,
rational curves with 6 marked points, is finitely generated by sections
corresponding to the boundary divisors and divisors which are pull-backs of the
hyperelliptic locus in $\bar{M}_3$, the moduli space of stable, genus 3 curves,
via morphisms that send a 6-pointed rational curve to a curve with 3 nodes by
identifying 3 pairs of points. In particular, this gives a self-contained proof
of Hassett and Tschinkel's result about the effective cone of $\bar{M}_{0,6}$
being generated by the above mentioned divisors.
  Removing al least one point from the unit sphere in $ R^{3}$ allows to
factorize the angular part of the laplacian with a Cauchy-Riemann type
operator. Solutions to this operator define a complex algebra of potential
functions. A family of these solutions is shown to be normalizable on the
sphere so it is possible to construct associate solutions for every radial
solution to the time-independant Schr\"odinger equation with a radial
potential, such that this family of solutions is square integrable in $R^{3}$.
While this family of associated solutions are singular on at least one
half-plane, they are square-integrable in almost all of $R^{3}$.
  This paper introduces a new combinatorial construction for q-ary
constant-weight codes which yields several families of optimal codes and
asymptotically optimal codes. The construction reveals intimate connection
between q-ary constant-weight codes and sets of pairwise disjoint combinatorial
designs of various types.
  We give an algorithm for finding network encoding and decoding equations for
error-free multicasting networks with multiple sources and sinks. The algorithm
given is efficient (polynomial complexity) and works on any kind of network
(acyclic, link cyclic, flow cyclic, or even in the presence of knots). The key
idea will be the appropriate use of the delay (both natural and additional)
during the encoding. The resulting code will always work with finite delay with
binary encoding coefficients.
  We obtain new invariants of topological link concordance and homology
cobordism of 3-manifolds from Hirzebruch-type intersection form defects of
towers of iterated p-covers. Our invariants can extract geometric information
from an arbitrary depth of the derived series of the fundamental group, and can
detect torsion which is invisible via signature invariants. Applications
illustrating these features include the following: (1) There are infinitely
many homology equivalent rational 3-spheres which are indistinguishable via
multisignatures, eta-invariants, and L2-signatures but have distinct homology
cobordism types. (2) There is an infinite family of 2-torsion (amphichiral)
knots, including the figure eight knot, with non-slice iterated Bing doubles;
as a special case, we give the first proof of the conjecture that the Bing
double of the figure eight knot is not slice. (3) There exist infinitely many
torsion elements at any depth of the Cochran-Orr-Teichner filtration of link
concordance.
  It is proved that every knot in the major subfamilies of J. Berge's lens
space surgery (i.e., knots yielding a lens space by Dehn surgery) is presented
by an L-shaped (real) plane curve as a "divide knot" defined by N. A'Campo in
the context of singularity theory of complex curves. For each knot given by
Berge's parameters, the corresponding plane curve is constructed. The surgery
coefficients are also considered. Such presentations support us to study each
knot itself, and the relationship among the knots in the set of lens space
surgeries.
  In an earlier paper we constructed a Cartier divisor on the theta divisor of
a principally polarised abelian variety whose support is precisely the
ramification locus of the Gauss map. In this note we discuss a Green's function
associated to this locus. For jacobians we relate this Green's function to the
canonical Green's function of the corresponding Riemann surface.
  Using operator algebraic methods we show that the moment generating function
of charge transport in a system with infinitely many non-interacting Fermions
is given by a determinant of a certain operator in the one-particle Hilbert
space. The formula is equivalent to a formula of Levitov and Lesovik in the
finite dimensional case and may be viewed as its regularized form in general.
Our result embodies two tenets often realized in mesoscopic physics, namely,
that the transport properties are essentially independent of the length of the
leads and of the depth of the Fermi sea.
  We propose an algorithm to reduce a k-chromatic graph to a complete graph of
largest possible order through a well defined sequence of contractions. We
introduce a new matrix called transparency matrix and state its properties. We
then define correct contraction procedure to be executed to get largest
possible complete graph from given connected graph. We finally give a
characterization for k-chromatic graphs and use it to settle Hadwigers
conjecture.
  In the work of Hoshino, Kato and Miyachi, the authors look at t-structures
induced by a compact object, C, of a triangulated category, T, which is rigid
in the sense of Iyama and Yoshino. Hoshino, Kato and Miyachi show that such an
object yields a non-degenerate t-structure on T whose heart es equivalent to
Mod(End(C)^op). Rigid objects in a triangulated category can be thought of as
behaving like chain differential graded algebras (DGAs).
  Analogously, looking at objects which behave like cochain DGAs naturally
gives the dual notion of a corigid object. Here, we see that a compact corigid
object, S, of a triangulated category, T, induces a structure similar to a
t-structure which we shall call a co-t-structure. We also show that the coheart
of this non-degenerate co-t-structure is equivalent to Mod(End(S)^op), and
hence an abelian subcategory of T.
  This is an essay that considering the knowledge structure and language of a
different nature, attempts to build on an explanation of the object of study
and characteristics of the mathematical science. We end up with a learning
cycle of mathematics and a paradigm for education, namely Learn to structure.
  Let R and S be differential graded algebras. In this paper we give a
characterisation of when a differential graded R-S-bimodule M induces a full
embedding of derived categories M\otimes - :D(S)--> D(R). In particular, this
characterisation generalises the theory of Geigle and Lenzing's homological
epimorphisms of rings. Furthermore, there is an application of the main result
to Dwyer and Greenlees's Morita theory.
  In this paper, the bit energy requirements of training-based transmission
over block Rayleigh fading channels are studied. Pilot signals are employed to
obtain the minimum mean-square-error (MMSE) estimate of the channel fading
coefficients. Energy efficiency is analyzed in the worst case scenario where
the channel estimate is assumed to be perfect and the error in the estimate is
considered as another source of additive Gaussian noise. It is shown that bit
energy requirement grows without bound as the snr goes to zero, and the minimum
bit energy is achieved at a nonzero snr value below which one should not
operate. The effect of the block length on both the minimum bit energy and the
snr value at which the minimum is achieved is investigated. Flash training
schemes are analyzed and shown to improve the energy efficiency in the low-snr
regime. Energy efficiency analysis is also carried out when peak power
constraints are imposed on pilot signals.
  The low-snr capacity of M-ary PSK transmission over both the additive white
Gaussian noise (AWGN) and fading channels is analyzed when hard-decision
detection is employed at the receiver. Closed-form expressions for the first
and second derivatives of the capacity at zero snr are obtained. The
spectral-efficiency/bit-energy tradeoff in the low-snr regime is analyzed by
finding the wideband slope and the bit energy required at zero spectral
efficiency. Practical design guidelines are drawn from the
information-theoretic analysis. The fading channel analysis is conducted for
both coherent and noncoherent cases, and the performance penalty in the
low-power regime for not knowing the channel is identified.
  The goal of this paper is to announce there is a single orbit of the c.e.
sets with inclusion, $\E$, such that the question of membership in this orbit
is $\Sigma^1_1$-complete. This result and proof have a number of nice
corollaries: the Scott rank of $\E$ is $\wock +1$; not all orbits are
elementarily definable; there is no arithmetic description of all orbits of
$\E$; for all finite $\alpha \geq 9$, there is a properly $\Delta^0_\alpha$
orbit (from the proof).
  A few small corrections made in this version
  In this paper, pilot-assisted transmission over Gauss-Markov Rayleigh fading
channels is considered. A simple scenario, where a single pilot signal is
transmitted every T symbols and T-1 data symbols are transmitted in between the
pilots, is studied. First, it is assumed that binary phase-shift keying (BPSK)
modulation is employed at the transmitter. With this assumption, the training
period, and data and training power allocation are jointly optimized by
maximizing an achievable rate expression. Achievable rates and energy-per-bit
requirements are computed using the optimal training parameters. Secondly, a
capacity lower bound is obtained by considering the error in the estimate as
another source of additive Gaussian noise, and the training parameters are
optimized by maximizing this lower bound.
  In this paper, the error performance of on-off frequency shift keying (OOFSK)
modulation over fading channels is analyzed when the receiver is equipped with
multiple antennas. The analysis is conducted in two cases: the coherent
scenario where the fading is perfectly known at the receiver, and the
noncoherent scenario where neither the receiver nor the transmitter knows the
fading coefficients. For both cases, the maximum a posteriori probability (MAP)
detection rule is derived and analytical probability of error expressions are
obtained. The effect of fading correlation among the receiver antennas is also
studied. Simulation results indicate that for sufficiently low duty cycle
values, lower probability of error values with respect to FSK signaling are
achieved. Equivalently, when compared to FSK modulation, OOFSK with low duty
cycle requires less energy to achieve the same probability of error, which
renders this modulation a more energy efficient transmission technique.
  We consider a cubic nonlinear Schroedinger equation with periodic potential.
In a semiclassical scaling the nonlinear interaction of modulated pulses
concentrated in one or several Bloch bands is studied. The notion of closed
mode systems is introduced which allows for the rigorous derivation of a finite
system of amplitude equations describing the macroscopic dynamics of these
pulses.
  In this paper, the performance of signaling strategies with high
peak-to-average power ratio is analyzed in both coherent and noncoherent fading
channels. Two recently proposed modulation schemes, namely on-off binary
phase-shift keying and on-off quaternary phase-shift keying, are considered.
For these modulation formats, the optimal decision rules used at the detector
are identified and analytical expressions for the error probabilities are
obtained. Numerical techniques are employed to compute the error probabilities.
It is concluded that increasing the peakedness of the signals results in
reduced error rates for a given power level and hence improve the energy
efficiency.
  We study solutions of the time dependent Schr\"odinger equation on Riemannian
manifolds with oscillatory initial conditions given by Lagrangian states.
Semiclassical approximations describe these solutions for small h (where h is
the semiclassical parameter), but their accuracy for large times is in general
only understood up to the Ehrenfest time T ~ ln(1/h), and the most difficult
case is the one where the underlying classical system is chaotic.
  We show that on surfaces of constant negative curvature semiclassical
approximations remain accurate for times at least up to T ~ h^(-1/2) in the
case that the Lagrangian state is associated with an unstable manifold of the
geodesic flow.
  In order to compute the packing dimension of orthogonal projections
  Falconer and Howroyd (1997) introduced a family of packing dimension profiles
${\rm Dim}_s$ that are parametrized by real numbers $s>0$. Subsequently,
Howroyd (2001) introduced alternate $s$-dimensional packing dimension profiles
$\hbox{${\rm P}$-$\dim$}_s$ and proved, among many other things, that
$\hbox{${\rm P}$-$\dim$}_s E={\rm Dim}_s E$ for all integers $s>0$ and all
analytic sets $E\subseteq\R^N$. The goal of this article is to prove that
$\hbox{${\rm P}$-$\dim$}_s E={\rm Dim}_s E$ for all real numbers $s>0$ and
analytic sets $E\subseteq\R^N$. This answers a question of Howroyd (2001, p.
159). Our proof hinges on a new property of fractional Brownian motion.
  H\"aggstr\"om, Peres, and Steif (1997) have introduced a dynamical version of
percolation on a graph $G$. When $G$ is a tree they derived a necessary and
sufficient condition for percolation to exist at some time $t$. In the case
that $G$ is a spherically symmetric tree, H\"aggstr\"om, Peres, and Steif
(1997) derived a necessary and sufficient condition for percolation to exist at
some time $t$ in a given target set $D$. The main result of the present paper
is a necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of percolation, at
some time $t\in D$, in the case that the underlying tree is not necessary
spherically symmetric. This answers a question of Yuval Peres (personal
communication). We present also a formula for the Hausdorff dimension of the
set of exceptional times of percolation.
  The aim of this comment is to call to the attention of DSR readers a basic
fact. The introduction of noncommutative structures in problems like the one
addressed in [1] is not necessary for the understanding of DSR physics. It can
be described just as the relativistic free particle problem in a different
parametrization.
  Let $X$ be a nilpotent space such that there exists $p\geq 1$ with
$H^p(X,\mathbb Q) \ne 0$ and $H^n(X,\mathbb Q)=0$ if $n>p$. Let $Y$ be a
m-connected space with $m\geq p+1$ and $H^*(Y,\mathbb Q)$ is finitely generated
as algebra. We assume that $X$ is formal and there exists $p$ odd such that
$H^p(X,\mathbb Q) \ne 0$. We prove that if the space $\mathcal F(X,Y)$ of
continuous maps from $X$ to $Y$ is formal, then $Y$ has the rational homotopy
type of a product of Eilenberg Mac Lane spaces. At the opposite, we exhibit an
example of a formal space $\mathcal F(S^2,Y)$ where $Y$ is not rationally
equivalent to a product of Eilenberg Mac Lane spaces.
  Let $\Gamma$ denote a $Q$-polynomial distance-regular graph with diameter $D
\geq 3$ and standard module $V$. Recently Ito and Terwilliger introduced four
direct sum decompositions of $V$; we call these the $(\mu,\nu)$--{\it split
decompositions} of $V$, where $\mu, \nu \in \lbrace \downarrow, \uparrow
\rbrace$. In this paper we show that the ($\downarrow,\downarrow$)--split
decomposition and the ($\uparrow,\uparrow$)--split decomposition are dual with
respect to the standard Hermitian form on $V$. We also show that the
($\downarrow,\uparrow$)--split decomposition and the
($\uparrow,\downarrow$)--split decomposition are dual with respect to the
standard Hermitian form on $V$.
  A Brownian time process is a Markov process subordinated to the absolute
value of an independent one-dimensional Brownian motion. Its transition
densities solve an initial value problem involving the square of the generator
of the original Markov process. An apparently unrelated class of processes,
emerging as the scaling limits of continuous time random walks, involve
subordination to the inverse or hitting time process of a classical stable
subordinator. The resulting densities solve fractional Cauchy problems, an
extension that involves fractional derivatives in time. In this paper, we will
show a close and unexpected connection between these two classes of processes,
and consequently, an equivalence between these two families of partial
differential equations.
  Let T_n be the Teichmueller space of flat metrics on the n-dimensional torus
and identify SL(n,Z) with the corresponding mapping class group. We prove that
the subset Y consisting of those points at which the systoles generate the
fundamental group of the torus is, for n > 4, not contractible. In particular,
Y is not an SL(n,Z)-equivariant deformation retract of T_n.
  We present the evaluation of a family of exponential-logarithmic integrals.
These have integrands of the form P(exp(x),ln(x)) where P is a polynomial. The
examples presented here appear in sections 4.33, 4.34 and 4.35 in the classical
table of integrals by I. Gradshteyn and I. Ryzhik.
  We present a systematic derivation of some definite integrals in the
classical table of Gradshteyn and Ryzhik that can be reduced to the gamma
function.
  We consider normalizers of an irreducible inclusion $N\subseteq M$ of
$\mathrm{II}_1$ factors. In the infinite index setting an inclusion
$uNu^*\subseteq N$ can be strict, forcing us to also investigate the semigroup
of one-sided normalizers. We relate these normalizers of $N$ in $M$ to
projections in the basic construction and show that every trace one projection
in the relative commutant $N'\cap < M,e_N>$ is of the form $u^*e_Nu$ for some
unitary $u\in M$ with $uNu^*\subseteq N$. This enables us to identify the
normalizers and the algebras they generate in several situations. In particular
each normalizer of a tensor product of irreducible subfactors is a tensor
product of normalizers modulo a unitary. We also examine normalizers of
irreducible subfactors arising from subgroup--group inclusions $H\subseteq G$.
Here the normalizers are the normalizing group elements modulo a unitary from
$L(H)$. We are also able to identify the finite trace $L(H)$-bimodules in
$\ell^2(G)$ as double cosets which are also finite unions of left cosets.
  We describe the geometry of geodesics on a Lorentz ellipsoid: give explicit
formulas for the first integrals (pseudo-confocal coordinates), curvature,
geodesically equivalent Riemannian metric, the invariant area-forms on the
time- and space-like geodesics and invariant 1-form on the space of null
geodesics. We prove a Poncelet-type theorem for null geodesics on the
ellipsoid: if such a geodesic close up after several oscillations in the
"pseudo-Riemannian belt", so do all other null geodesics on this ellipsoid.
  Let C be an integral projective curve with surficial singularities. We prove
that topologically trivial line bundles on the compactified Jacobian of C are
in one-to-one correspondence with line bundles on C (the autoduality
conjecture), and compute the cohomology of the line bundles. We also show that
the natural Fourier-Mukai functor between the derived categories of
quasi-coherent sheaves on the Jacobian and on the compactified Jacobian is
fully faithful.
  In this paper one shows if the number of natural solutions of a general
linear equation is limited or not. Also, it is presented a method of solving
the Diophantine equation $ax-by=c$ in the set of natural numbers, and an
example of solving in $N$ a Diophantine equation with three variables.
  We show the asymptotic behavior of the eigenvalues of the non-linear integral
system related to the (p,q)-Laplacian.
  In this note we prove that all connected Cayley graphs of every finite group
$Q \times H$ are 1-factorizable, where $Q$ is any non-trivial group of 2-power
order and $H$ is any group of odd order.
  In this paper we study the automorphism group of a possible symmetric
$(81,16,3)$ design.
  We prove well-posedness of vortex sheets with surface tension in the 3D
incompressible Euler equations with vorticity.
  This is the third of a series of papers on a new equivariant cohomology that
takes values in a vertex algebra, and contains and generalizes the classical
equivariant cohomology of a manifold with a Lie group action a la H. Cartan. In
this paper, we compute this cohomology for spheres and show that for any simple
connected group G, there is a sphere with infinitely many actions of G which
have distinct chiral equivariant cohomology, but identical classical
equivariant cohomology. Unlike the classical case, the description of the
chiral equivariant cohomology of spheres requires a substantial amount of new
structural theory, which we fully develop in this paper. This includes a
quasi-conformal structure, equivariant homotopy invariance, and the values of
this cohomology on homogeneous spaces. These results rely on crucial features
of the underlying vertex algebra valued complex that have no classical
analogues.
  In many applications, input data are sampled functions taking their values in
infinite dimensional spaces rather than standard vectors. This fact has complex
consequences on data analysis algorithms that motivate modifications of them.
In fact most of the traditional data analysis tools for regression,
classification and clustering have been adapted to functional inputs under the
general name of functional Data Analysis (FDA). In this paper, we investigate
the use of Support Vector Machines (SVMs) for functional data analysis and we
focus on the problem of curves discrimination. SVMs are large margin classifier
tools based on implicit non linear mappings of the considered data into high
dimensional spaces thanks to kernels. We show how to define simple kernels that
take into account the unctional nature of the data and lead to consistent
classification. Experiments conducted on real world data emphasize the benefit
of taking into account some functional aspects of the problems.
  This Note proposes a new methodology for function classification with Support
Vector Machine (SVM). Rather than relying on projection on a truncated Hilbert
basis as in our previous work, we use an implicit spline interpolation that
allows us to compute SVM on the derivatives of the studied functions. To that
end, we propose a kernel defined directly on the discretizations of the
observed functions. We show that this method is universally consistent.
  Functional data analysis is a growing research field as more and more
practical applications involve functional data. In this paper, we focus on the
problem of regression and classification with functional predictors: the model
suggested combines an efficient dimension reduction procedure [functional
sliced inverse regression, first introduced by Ferr\'e & Yao (Statistics, 37,
2003, 475)], for which we give a regularized version, with the accuracy of a
neural network. Some consistency results are given and the method is
successfully confronted to real-life data.
  We prove that if $(v_i)$ is a normalized basic sequence and X is a Banach
space such that every normalized weakly null sequence in X has a subsequence
that is dominated by $(v_i)$, then there exists a uniform constant $C\geq1$
such that every normalized weakly null sequence in X has a subsequence that is
C-dominated by $(v_i)$. This extends a result of Knaust and Odell, who proved
this for the cases in which $(v_i)$ is the standard basis for $\ell_p$ or
$c_0$.
  In this announcement, we describe the solution in the C1 topology to a
question asked by S. Smale on the genericity of trivial centralizers: the set
of diffeomorphisms of a compact connected manifold with trivial centralizer
residual in Diff^1 but does not contain an open and dense subset.
  In this paper, we consider the coordination control of a group of autonomous
mobile agents with multiple leaders. Different interconnection topologies are
investigated. At first, a necessary and sufficient condition is proved in the
case of fixed interconnection topology. Then a sufficient condition is proposed
when the interconnection topology is switched. With a simple first-order
dynamics model by using the neighborhood rule, both results show that the group
behavior of the agents will converge to the polytope formed by the leaders.
  In dimension greater than four, we prove that if a Hermitian non-Kaehler
manifold is of pointwise constant antiholomorphic sectional curvatures, then it
is of constant sectional curvatures.
  In the present paper we consider countable state $p$-adic Potts model on the
Cayley tree. A construction of $p$-adic Gibbs measures which depends on weights
$\l$ is given, and an investigation of such measures is reduced to examination
of an infinite-dimensional recursion equation. Studying of the derived equation
under some condition on weights, we prove absence of the phase transition. Note
that the condition does not depend on values of the prime $p$, and an analogues
fact is not true when the number of spins is finite. For homogeneous model it
is shown that the recursive equation has only one solution under that condition
on weights. This means that there is only one $p$-adic Gibbs measure $\m_\l$.
The boundedness of the measure is also established. Moreover, continuous
dependence the measure $\m_\l$ on $\l$ is proved. At the end we formulate one
limit theorem for $\m_\l$.
  We extend the usual projective Abel-Radon transform to the larger context of
a smooth complete toric variety X. We define and study toric concavity attached
to an algebraic splitting vector bundle on X and we prove a toric version of
the Abel-inverse theorem.
  We prove that the Neumann, Dirichlet and regularity problems for divergence
form elliptic equations in the half space are well posed in $L_2$ for small
complex $L_\infty$ perturbations of a coefficient matrix which is either real
symmetric, of block form or constant. All matrices are assumed to be
independent of the transversal coordinate. We solve the Neumann, Dirichlet and
regularity problems through a new boundary operator method which makes use of
operators in the functional calculus of an underlaying first order Dirac type
operator. We establish quadratic estimates for this Dirac operator, which
implies that the associated Hardy projection operators are bounded and depend
continuously on the coefficient matrix. We also prove that certain transmission
problems for $k$-forms are well posed for small perturbations of block
matrices.
  We study the class field theory of curve defined over two dimensional local
field. The approch used here is a combination of the work of Kato-Saito, and
Yoshida where the base field is one dimensional
  We consider power allocation algorithms for fixed-rate transmission over
Nakagami-m non-ergodic block-fading channels with perfect transmitter and
receiver channel state information and discrete input signal constellations
under both short- and long-term power constraints. Optimal power allocation
schemes are shown to be direct applications of previous results in the
literature. We show that the SNR exponent of the optimal short-term scheme is
given by the Singleton bound. We also illustrate the significant gains
available by employing long-term power constraints. Due to the nature of the
expressions involved, the complexity of optimal schemes may be prohibitive for
system implementation. We propose simple sub-optimal power allocation schemes
whose outage probability performance is very close to the minimum outage
probability obtained by optimal schemes.
  There is a large literature devoted to the problem of finding an optimal
(min-cost) prefix-free code with an unequal letter-cost encoding alphabet of
size. While there is no known polynomial time algorithm for solving it
optimally there are many good heuristics that all provide additive errors to
optimal. The additive error in these algorithms usually depends linearly upon
the largest encoding letter size.
  This paper was motivated by the problem of finding optimal codes when the
encoding alphabet is infinite. Because the largest letter cost is infinite, the
previous analyses could give infinite error bounds. We provide a new algorithm
that works with infinite encoding alphabets. When restricted to the finite
alphabet case, our algorithm often provides better error bounds than the best
previous ones known.
  The Fourier coefficients of a smooth $K$-invariant function on a compact
symmetric space $M=U/K$ are given by integration of the function against the
spherical functions. For functions with support in a neighborhood of the
origin, we describe the size of the support by means of the exponential type of
a holomorphic extension of the Fourier coefficients
  We consider the least angle regression and forward stagewise algorithms for
solving penalized least squares regression problems. In Efron, Hastie,
Johnstone & Tibshirani (2004) it is proved that the least angle regression
algorithm, with a small modification, solves the lasso regression problem. Here
we give an analogous result for incremental forward stagewise regression,
showing that it solves a version of the lasso problem that enforces
monotonicity. One consequence of this is as follows: while lasso makes optimal
progress in terms of reducing the residual sum-of-squares per unit increase in
$L_1$-norm of the coefficient $\beta$, forward stage-wise is optimal per unit
$L_1$ arc-length traveled along the coefficient path. We also study a condition
under which the coefficient paths of the lasso are monotone, and hence the
different algorithms coincide. Finally, we compare the lasso and forward
stagewise procedures in a simulation study involving a large number of
correlated predictors.
  We provide a new algorithm for the treatment of inverse problems which
combines the traditional SVD inversion with an appropriate thresholding
technique in a well chosen new basis. Our goal is to devise an inversion
procedure which has the advantages of localization and multiscale analysis of
wavelet representations without losing the stability and computability of the
SVD decompositions. To this end we utilize the construction of localized frames
(termed "needlets") built upon the SVD bases. We consider two different
situations: the "wavelet" scenario, where the needlets are assumed to behave
similarly to true wavelets, and the "Jacobi-type" scenario, where we assume
that the properties of the frame truly depend on the SVD basis at hand (hence
on the operator). To illustrate each situation, we apply the estimation
algorithm respectively to the deconvolution problem and to the Wicksell
problem. In the latter case, where the SVD basis is a Jacobi polynomial basis,
we show that our scheme is capable of achieving rates of convergence which are
optimal in the $L_2$ case, we obtain interesting rates of convergence for other
$L_p$ norms which are new (to the best of our knowledge) in the literature, and
we also give a simulation study showing that the NEED-D estimator outperforms
other standard algorithms in almost all situations.
  We prove an analytic KAM-Theorem, which is used in [1], where the
differential part of KAM-theory is discussed. Related theorems on analytic
KAM-theory exist in the literature (e. g., among many others, [7], [8], [13]).
The aim of the theorem presented here is to provide exactly the estimates
needed in [1].
  The q-deformed algebra ${\rm so}'_q(r,s)$ is a real form of the q-deformed
algebra $U'_q({\rm so}(n,\mathbb{C}))$, $n=r+s$, which differs from the quantum
algebra $U_q({\rm so}(n,\mathbb{C}))$ of Drinfeld and Jimbo. We study
representations of the most degenerate series of the algebra ${\rm
so}'_q(r,s)$. The formulas of action of operators of these representations upon
the basis corresponding to restriction of representations onto the subalgebra
${\rm so}'_q(r)\times {\rm so}'_q(s)$ are given. Most of these representations
are irreducible. Reducible representations appear under some conditions for the
parameters determining the representations. All irreducible constituents which
appear in reducible representations of the degenerate series are found. All
$*$-representations of ${\rm so}'_q(r,s)$ are separated in the set of
irreducible representations obtained in the paper.
  This paper presents a geometric description of Lagrangian and Hamiltonian
systems on Lie affgebroids subject to affine nonholonomic constraints. We
define the notion of nonholonomically constrained system, and characterize
regularity conditions that guarantee that the dynamics of the system can be
obtained as a suitable projection of the unconstrained dynamics. It is shown
that one can define an almost aff-Poisson bracket on the constraint AV-bundle,
which plays a prominent role in the description of nonholonomic dynamics.
Moreover, these developments give a general description of nonholonomic systems
and the unified treatment permits to study nonholonomic systems after or before
reduction in the same framework. Also, it is not necessary to distinguish
between linear or affine constraints and the methods are valid for explicitly
time-dependent systems.
  The aim of this work is to perform numerical simulations of the propagation
of a laser in a plasma. At each time step, one has to solve a Helmholtz
equation in a domain which consists in some hundreds of millions of cells. To
solve this huge linear system, one uses a iterative Krylov method with a
preconditioning by a separable matrix. The corresponding linear system is
solved with a block cyclic reduction method. Some enlightments on the parallel
implementation are also given. Lastly, numerical results are presented
including some features concerning the scalability of the numerical method on a
parallel architecture.
  It is known that, in an asymptotically flat spacetime, null infinity cannot
act as an initial-value surface for massive real scalar fields. Exploiting
tools proper of harmonic analysis on hyperboloids and global norm estimates for
the wave operator, we show that it is possible to circumvent such obstruction
at least in Minkowski spacetime. Hence we project norm-finite solutions of the
Klein-Gordon equation of motion in data on null infinity and, eventually, we
interpret them in terms of boundary free field theory.
  This paper proposes a novel algorithm for finding error-locators of
algebraic-geometric codes that can eliminate the division-calculations of
finite fields from the Berlekamp-Massey-Sakata algorithm. This inverse-free
algorithm provides full performance in correcting a certain class of errors,
generic errors, which includes most errors, and can decode codes on algebraic
curves without the determination of unknown syndromes. Moreover, we propose
three different kinds of architectures that our algorithm can be applied to,
and we represent the control operation of shift-registers and switches at each
clock-timing with numerical simulations. We estimate the performance in
comparison of the total running time and the numbers of multipliers and
shift-registers in three architectures with those of the conventional ones for
codes on algebraic curves.
  We design and analyze a new non-conforming domain decomposition method based
on Schwarz type approaches that allows for the use of Robin interface
conditions on non-conforming grids. The method is proven to be well posed, and
the iterative solver to converge. The error analysis is performed in 2D
piecewise polynomials of low and high order and extended in 3D for $P_1$
elements. Numerical results in 2D illustrate the new method.
  We consider families of B\"or\"oczky tilings in hyperbolic space in arbitrary
dimension, study some basic properties and classify all possible symmetries. In
particular, it is shown that these tilings are non-crystallographic, and that
there are uncountably many tilings with a fixed prototile.
  We show how to calculate the Euler characteristic of a local system
associated to an irreducible representation of the symplectic group of genus 3
on the moduli space of curves of genus 3 and the moduli space of principally
polarized abelian varieties of dimension 3.
  We prove a higher order asymptotic formula for traces of finite block
Toeplitz matrices with symbols belonging to H\"older-Zygmund spaces. The
remainder in this formula goes to zero very rapidly for very smooth symbols.
This formula refine previous asymptotic trace formulas by Szeg\"o and Widom and
complement higher order asymptotic formulas for determinants of finite block
Toeplitz matrices due to B\"ottcher and Silbermann.
  We consider fixed points of the Feigenbaum (periodic-doubling) operator whose
orders tend to infinity. It is known that the hyperbolic dimension of their
Julia sets go to 2. We prove that the Lebesgue measure of these Julia sets tend
to zero. An important part of the proof consists in applying martingale theory
to a stochastic process with non-integrable increments.
  We prove that the gonality among the smooth curves in a complete linear
system on a $K3$ surface is constant except for the Donagi-Morrison example.
This was proved by Ciliberto and Pareschi under the additional condition that
the linear system is ample.
  As a consequence we prove that exceptional curves on $K3$ surfaces satisfy
the Eisenbud-Lange-Martens-Schreyer conjecture and explicitly describe such
curves. They turn out to be natural extensions of the
Eisenbud-Lange-Martens-Schreyer examples of exceptional curves on $K3$
surfaces.
  A digraph is $m$-labelled if every arc is labelled by an integer in $\{1,
\dots,m\}$. Motivated by wavelength assignment for multicasts in optical
networks, we introduce and study $n$-fibre colourings of labelled digraphs.
These are colourings of the arcs of $D$ such that at each vertex $v$, and for
each colour $\alpha$, $in(v,\alpha)+out(v,\alpha)\leq n$ with $in(v,\alpha)$
the number of arcs coloured $\alpha$ entering $v$ and $out(v,\alpha)$ the
number of labels $l$ such that there is at least one arc of label $l$ leaving
$v$ and coloured with $\alpha$. The problem is to find the minimum number of
colours $\lambda_n(D)$ such that the $m$-labelled digraph $D$ has an $n$-fibre
colouring. In the particular case when $D$ is $1$-labelled, $\lambda_1(D)$ is
called the directed star arboricity of $D$, and is denoted by $dst(D)$. We
first show that $dst(D)\leq 2\Delta^-(D)+1$, and conjecture that if
$\Delta^-(D)\geq 2$, then $dst(D)\leq 2\Delta^-(D)$. We also prove that for a
subcubic digraph $D$, then $dst(D)\leq 3$, and that if $\Delta^+(D),
\Delta^-(D)\leq 2$, then $dst(D)\leq 4$. Finally, we study
$\lambda_n(m,k)=\max\{\lambda_n(D) \tq D \mbox{is $m$-labelled} \et
\Delta^-(D)\leq k\}$. We show that if $m\geq n$, then $\ds
\left\lceil\frac{m}{n}\left\lceil \frac{k}{n}\right\rceil + \frac{k}{n}
\right\rceil\leq \lambda_n(m,k) \leq\left\lceil\frac{m}{n}\left\lceil
\frac{k}{n}\right\rceil + \frac{k}{n} \right\rceil + C \frac{m^2\log k}{n}$ for
some constant $C$. We conjecture that the lower bound should be the right value
of $\lambda_n(m,k)$.
  Decomposition systems with rapidly decaying elements (needlets) based on
Hermite functions are introduced and explored. It is proved that the
Triebel-Lizorkin and Besov spaces on $\R^d$ induced by Hermite expansions can
be characterized in terms of the needlet coefficients. It is also shown that
the Hermite Triebel-Lizorkin and Besov spaces are, in general, different from
the respective classical spaces.
  Let ccl(G) denote the order of the largest complete minor in a graph G (also
called the contraction clique number) and let G(n,p) denote a random graph on n
vertices with edge probability p. Bollobas, Catlin and Erdos asymptotically
determined ccl(G (n,p)) when p is a constant. Luczak, Pittel and Wierman gave
bounds on ccl(G(n,p)) when p is very close to 1/n, i.e. inside the phase
transition. Extending the results of Bollobas, Catlin and Erdos, we determine
ccl(G(n,p)) quite tightly, for p>C/n where C is a large constant. If p=C/n, for
an arbitrary constant C>1, then we show that asymptotically almost surely ccl(G
(n,p)) is of order square-root of n. This answers a question of Krivelevich and
Sudakov.
  Optimal delay-throughput trade-offs for two-dimensional i.i.d mobility models
have been established in [23], where we showed that the optimal trade-offs can
be achieved using rate-less codes when the required delay guarantees are
sufficient large. In this paper, we extend the results to other mobility models
including two-dimensional hybrid random walk model, one-dimensional i.i.d.
mobility model and one-dimensional hybrid random walk model. We consider both
fast mobiles and slow mobiles, and establish the optimal delay-throughput
trade-offs under some conditions. Joint coding-scheduling algorithms are also
proposed to achieve the optimal trade-offs.
  This thesis consists of two parts which share only a slight overlap.
  The first part is concerned with the study of ideals in the ring
$C^\infty(M,R)$ of smooth functions on a compact smooth manifold M or more
generally submodules of a finitely generated $C^\infty(M,R)$-module V. We
define a topology on the space of all submodules of V of a fixed finite
codimension d. Its main property is that it is compact Hausdorff and, in the
case of ideals in the ring itself, it contains as a subspace the configuration
space of d distinct unordered points in M and therefore gives a
"compactification" of this configuration space. We present a concrete
description of this space for low codimensions.
  The main focus is then put on the second part which is concerned with a
generalization of Vassiliev's h-principle. This principle in its simplest form
asserts that the jet prolongation map $j^r:C^\infty(M,E)\to\Gamma(J^r(M,E))$,
defined on the space of smooth maps from a compact manifold M to a Euclidean
space E and with target the space of smooth sections of the jet bundle
$J^r(M,E)$, is a cohomology isomorphism when restricted to certain
"nonsingular" subsets (these are defined in terms of a certain subset
$R\subseteq J^r(M,E)$). Our generalization then puts this theorem in a more
general setting of topological $C^\infty(M,R)$-modules. As a reward we get a
strengthening of this result asserting that all the homotopy fibres have zero
homology.
  We study the class of 2-dimensional affine k-domains R satisfying ML(R) = k,
where k is an arbitrary field of characteristic zero. In particular, we obtain
the following result:
  Let R be a localization of a polynomial ring in finitely many variables over
a field of characteristic zero. If ML(R) = K for some field K included in R and
such that R has transcendence degree 2 over K, then R is K-isomorphic to
K[X,Y,Z]/(XY-P(Z)) for some nonconstant polynomial P(Z) in K[Z].
  We study the spectrum of the Fibonacci Hamiltonian and prove upper and lower
bounds for its fractal dimension in the large coupling regime. These bounds
show that as $\lambda \to \infty$, $\dim (\sigma(H_\lambda)) \cdot \log
\lambda$ converges to an explicit constant ($\approx 0.88137$). We also discuss
consequences of these results for the rate of propagation of a wavepacket that
evolves according to Schr\"odinger dynamics generated by the Fibonacci
Hamiltonian.
  Let $1\le p<q\le\infty$ and let $T$ be a subadditive operator acting on
  $L^p$ and $L^q$. We prove that $T$ is bounded on the Orlicz space
  $L^\phi$, where $\phi^{-1}(u)=u^{1/p}\rho(u^{1/q-1/p})$ for some concave
function $\rho$ and \[ \|T\|_{L^\phi\to L^\phi}\le C\max\{\|T\|_{L^p\to
L^p},\|T\|_{L^q\to L^q}\}. \] The interpolation constant $C$, in general, is
less than 4 and, in many cases, we can give much better estimates for $C$. In
particular, if $p=1$ and $q=\infty$, then the classical Orlicz interpolation
theorem holds for subadditive operators with the interpolation constant C=1.
These results generalize our results for linear operators obtained in
\cite{KM01}.
  A category is described to which the Cuntz semigroup belongs and as a functor
into which it preserves inductive limits.
  We develop a framework for derived deformation theory, valid in all
characteristics. This gives a model category reconciling local and global
approaches to derived moduli theory. In characteristic 0, we use this to show
that the homotopy categories of DGLAs and SHLAs (L infinity algebras)
considered by Kontsevich, Hinich and Manetti are equivalent, and are compatible
with the derived stacks of Toen--Vezzosi and Lurie. Another application is that
the cohomology groups associated to any classical deformation problem (in any
characteristic) admit the same operations as Andre--Quillen cohomology.
  We consider the stability of the periodic Toda lattice (and slightly more
generally of the algebro-geometric finite-gap lattice) under a short range
perturbation. We prove that the perturbed lattice asymptotically approaches a
modulated lattice.
  More precisely, let $g$ be the genus of the hyperelliptic curve associated
with the unperturbed solution. We show that, apart from the phenomenon of the
solitons travelling on the quasi-periodic background, the $n/t$-pane contains
$g+2$ areas where the perturbed solution is close to a finite-gap solution in
the same isospectral torus. In between there are $g+1$ regions where the
perturbed solution is asymptotically close to a modulated lattice which
undergoes a continuous phase transition (in the Jacobian variety) and which
interpolates between these isospectral solutions. In the special case of the
free lattice ($g=0$) the isospectral torus consists of just one point and we
recover the known result.
  Both the solutions in the isospectral torus and the phase transition are
explicitly characterized in terms of Abelian integrals on the underlying
hyperelliptic curve.
  Our method relies on the equivalence of the inverse spectral problem to a
matrix Riemann--Hilbert problem defined on the hyperelliptic curve and
generalizes the so-called nonlinear stationary phase/steepest descent method
for Riemann--Hilbert problem deformations to Riemann surfaces.
  In this reply, we show that the author of the Comment arXiv:0704.3529v1
inadvertently provides additional arguments against the use of Hardy functions
as test functions for the Gamow states.
  Two averaging algorithms are considered which are intended for choosing an
optimal plane and an optimal circle approximating a group of points in
three-dimensional Euclidean space.
  In the purely affine formulation of gravity, the gravitational field is
represented by the symmetric part of the Ricci tensor of the affine connection.
The classical electromagnetic field can be represented in this formulation by
the second Ricci tensor of the connection. Such a construction is dynamically
equivalent to the sourceless Einstein-Maxwell equations. We generalize this
construction to the case with sources, represented by the derivative of the
affine Lagrangian density with respect to the connection. We show that the
Maxwell equations with sources emerge for the simplest affine Lagrangian for
matter, while the Einstein and Lorentz equations arise if mass has
electromagnetic origin. We also show that the Maxwell equations replace the
unphysical constraint imposed by the projective invariance of purely affine
Lagrangians that depend explicitly on the connection.
  This paper gives game-theoretic versions of several results on "merging of
opinions" obtained in measure-theoretic probability and algorithmic randomness
theory. An advantage of the game-theoretic versions over the measure-theoretic
results is that they are pointwise, their advantage over the algorithmic
randomness results is that they are non-asymptotic, but the most important
advantage over both is that they are very constructive, giving explicit and
efficient strategies for players in a game of prediction.
  We interpret a result of S. Oehms as a statement about the symplectic ideal.
We use this result to prove a double centraliser theorem for the symplectic
group acting on \bigoplus_{r=0}^s\otimes^rV, where V is the natural module for
the symplectic group. This result was obtained in characteristic zero by H.
Weyl. Furthermore we use this to extend to arbitrary connected reductive groups
G with simply connected derived group the earlier result of the author that the
algebra K[G]^g of infinitesimal invariants in the algebra of regular functions
on G is a unique factorisation domain.
  We give some sufficient conditions under which any valued field that admits
quantifier elimination in the Macintyre language is henselian. Then, without
extra assumptions, we prove that if a valued field of characteristic $(0,0)$
has a $\Z$-group as its value group and admits quantifier elimination in the
main sort of the Denef-Pas style language $\mathcal{L}_{RRP}$ then it is
henselian. In fact the proof of this suggests that a quite large class of
Denef-Pas style languages is natural with respect to henselianity.
  In this paper, we consider a leader-following consensus problem of a group of
autonomous agents with time-varying coupling delays. Two different cases of
coupling topologies are investigated. At first, a necessary and sufficient
condition is proved in the case when the interconnection topology is fixed and
directed. Then a sufficient condition is proposed in the case when the coupling
topology is switched and balanced. Numerical examples are also given to
illustrate our results.
  In this paper, we consider the coordination control of a group of autonomous
mobile agents with multiple leaders. Different interconnection topologies are
investigated. At first, a necessary and sufficient condition is proved in the
case of fixed interconnection topology. Then a sufficient condition is proposed
when the interconnection topology is switched. With a simple first-order
dynamics model by using the neighborhood rule, both results show that the group
behavior of the agents will converge to the polytope formed by the leaders.
  The large deviations principles are established for a class of
multidimensional degenerate stochastic differential equations with reflecting
boundary conditions. The results include two cases where the initial conditions
are adapted and anticipated.
  We give a presentation of the moduli stack of toric vector bundles with fixed
equivariant total Chern class as a quotient of a fine moduli scheme of framed
bundles by a linear group action. This fine moduli scheme is described
explicitly as a locally closed subscheme of a product of partial flag varieties
cut out by combinatorially specified rank conditions. We use this description
to show that the moduli of rank three toric vector bundles satisfy Murphy's
Law, in the sense of Vakil. The preliminary sections of the paper give a
self-contained introduction to Klyachko's classification of toric vector
bundles.
  Finite metric trees are known to have strict 1-negative type. In this paper
we introduce a new family of inequalities that quantify the extent of the
"strictness" of the 1-negative type inequalities for finite metric trees. These
inequalities of "enhanced 1-negative type" are sufficiently strong to imply
that any given finite metric tree must have strict p-negative type for all
values of p in an open interval that contains the number 1. Moreover, these
open intervals can be characterized purely in terms of the unordered
distribution of edge weights that determine the path metric on the particular
tree, and are therefore largely independent of the tree's internal geometry.
  From these calculations we are able to extract a new non linear technique for
improving lower bounds on the maximal p-negative type of certain finite metric
spaces. Some pathological examples are also considered in order to stress
certain technical points.
  We construct the infinite sequence of invariants for curves in surfaces by
using word theory that V. Turaev introduced. For plane closed curves, we add
some extra terms, e.g. the rotation number. From these modified invariants, we
get the Arnold's basic invariants and some other invariants. We also express
how these invariants classify plane closed curves. In addition, we consider
other classes of plane curves: long curves and fronts.
  We show that the arithmetic D-module associated to an overconvergent
F-isocrystal over a smooth curve is holonomic. We first prove that unipotent
F-isocrystals are holonomic D-module by using the fact that such F-isocrystals
come from logarithmic F-isocrystals. We deduce the general case from the
semi-stable theorem for F-isocrystals over curves of Matsuda-Trihan which
relies on the p-adic monodromy theorem independently proved by Andr\'e, Kedlaya
and Mebkhout. The main result has already been proved by D. Caro.
  A key idea in coding for the broadcast channel (BC) is binning, in which the
transmitter encode information by selecting a codeword from an appropriate bin
(the messages are thus the bin indexes). This selection is normally done by
solving an appropriate (possibly difficult) combinatorial problem. Recently it
has been shown that binning for the Blackwell channel --a particular BC-- can
be done by iterative schemes based on Survey Propagation (SP). This method uses
decimation for SP and suffers a complexity of O(n^2). In this paper we propose
a new variation of the Belief Propagation (BP) algorithm, named Reinforced BP
algorithm, that turns BP into a solver. Our simulations show that this new
algorithm has complexity O(n log n). Using this new algorithm together with a
non-linear coding scheme, we can efficiently achieve rates close to the border
of the capacity region of the Blackwell channel.
  This paper is concerned with embeddings of homogeneous spaces into Euclidean
spaces. We show that any homogeneous metric space can be embedded into a
Hilbert space using an almost bi-Lipschitz mapping (bi-Lipschitz to within
logarithmic corrections). The image of this set is no longer homogeneous, but
`almost homogeneous'. We therefore study the problem of embedding an almost
homogeneous subset $X$ of a Hilbert space $H$ into a finite-dimensional
Euclidean space. In fact we show that if $X$ is a compact subset of a Banach
space and $X-X$ is almost homogeneous then, for $N$ sufficiently large, a
prevalent set of linear maps from $X$ into $\Re^N$ are almost bi-Lipschitz
between $X$ and its image. We are then able to use the Kuratowski embedding of
$(X,d)$ into $L^\infty(X)$ to prove a similar result for compact metric spaces.
  We use geometry of Davis complex of a Coxeter group to prove the following
result: if G is an infinite indecomposable Coxeter group and $H\subset G$ is a
finite index reflection subgroup then the rank of H is not less than the rank
of G. This generalizes results of math/0305093. We also describe some
properties of the nerves of the group and the subgroup in the case of equal
ranks.
  We explicitly construct two classes of infinitly many commutative operators
in terms of the deformed Virasoro algebra. We call one of them local integrals
and the other nonlocal one, since they can be regarded as elliptic deformations
of the local and nonlocal integrals of motion obtained by V.Bazhanov,
S.Lukyanov and Al.Zamolodchikov.
  We prove higher order asymptotic formulas for determinants and traces of
finite block Toeplitz matrices generated by matrix functions belonging to
generalized H\"older spaces with characteristic functions from the
Bari-Stechkin class. We follow the approach of B\"ottcher and Silbermann and
generalize their results for symbols in standard H\"older spaces.
  We develop a model of the behaviour of a dynamically optimizing economic
agent who makes consumption-saving and spatial relocation decisions. We
formulate an existence result for the model, derive the necessary conditions
for optimality and study the behaviour of the economic agent, focusing on the
case of a wage distribution with a single maximum.
  The purpose of this paper is to show that in a finite dimensional metric
space with Alexandrov's curvature bounded below, Monge's transport problem for
the quadratic cost admits a unique solution.
  Let G be a finite Abelian group and A be a subset G\times G of cardinality at
least |G|^2/(log log |G|)^c, where c>0 is an absolute constant. We prove that A
contains a triple {(k,m), (k+d,m), (k,m+d)}, where d does not equal 0. This
theorem is a two-dimensional generalization of Szemeredi's theorem on
arithmetic progressions.
  Parallel transport of a connection in a smooth fibre bundle yields a functor
from the path groupoid of the base manifold into a category that describes the
fibres of the bundle. We characterize functors obtained like this by two
notions we introduce: local trivializations and smooth descent data. This
provides a way to substitute categories of functors for categories of smooth
fibre bundles with connection. We indicate that this concept can be generalized
to connections in categorified bundles, and how this generalization improves
the understanding of higher dimensional parallel transport.
  A function $\rho:[0,\infty)\to(0,1]$ is a completely monotonic function if
and only if $\rho(\Vert\mathbf{x}\Vert^2)$ is positive definite on
$\mathbb{R}^d$ for all $d$ and thus it represents the correlation function of a
weakly stationary and isotropic Gaussian random field. Radial positive definite
functions are also of importance as they represent characteristic functions of
spherically symmetric probability distributions. In this paper, we analyze the
function \[\rho(\beta ,\gamma)(x)=1-\biggl(\frac{x^{\beta}}{1+x^{\beta}}\biggr
)^{\gamma},\qquad x\ge 0, \beta,\gamma>0,\] called the Dagum function, and show
those ranges for which this function is completely monotonic, that is, positive
definite, on any $d$-dimensional Euclidean space. Important relations arise
with other families of completely monotonic and logarithmically completely
monotonic functions.
  We prove existence of conjugate Galois representations, and we use it to
derive a simple method of weight reduction. As a consequence, an alternative
proof of the level 1 case of Serre's conjecture follows.
  We study the existence of Fuchsian differential equations in positive
characteristic with nilpotent p-curvature, and given local invariants. In the
case of differential equations with logarithmic local mononodromy, we determine
the minimal possible degree of a polynomial solution.
  The description of resources in game semantics has never achieved the
simplicity and precision of linear logic, because of a misleading conception:
the belief that linear logic is more primitive than game semantics. We advocate
instead the contrary: that game semantics is conceptually more primitive than
linear logic. Starting from this revised point of view, we design a categorical
model of resources in game semantics, and construct an arena game model where
the usual notion of bracketing is extended to multi- bracketing in order to
capture various resource policies: linear, af&#64257;ne and exponential.
  In this paper we investigate a class of swing options with firm constraints
in view of the modeling of supply agreements. We show, for a fully general
payoff process, that the premium, solution to a stochastic control problem, is
concave and piecewise affine as a function of the global constraints of the
contract. The existence of bang-bang optimal controls is established for a set
of constraints which generates by affinity the whole premium function. When the
payoff process is driven by an underlying Markov process, we propose a
quantization based recursive backward procedure to price these contracts. A
priori error bounds are established, uniformly with respect to the global
constraints.
  We pose a new and intriguing question motivated by distributed computing
regarding random walks on graphs: How long does it take for several independent
random walks, starting from the same vertex, to cover an entire graph? We study
the cover time - the expected time required to visit every node in a graph at
least once - and we show that for a large collection of interesting graphs,
running many random walks in parallel yields a speed-up in the cover time that
is linear in the number of parallel walks. We demonstrate that an exponential
speed-up is sometimes possible, but that some natural graphs allow only a
logarithmic speed-up. A problem related to ours (in which the walks start from
some probabilistic distribution on vertices) was previously studied in the
context of space efficient algorithms for undirected s-t connectivity and our
results yield, in certain cases, an improvement upon some of the earlier
bounds.
  In a very recent paper, M. Rahman introduced a remarkable family of
polynomials in two variables as the eigenfunctions of the transition matrix for
a nontrivial Markov chain due to M. Hoare and M. Rahman. I indicate here that
these polynomials are bispectral. This should be just one of the many
remarkable properties enjoyed by these polynomials. For several challenges,
including finding a general proof of some of the facts displayed here the
reader should look at the last section of this paper.
  Let A be a basic connected finite dimensional algebra over an algebraically
closed field. Assuming that A is quasitilted, we prove that A is simply
connected if and only if its first Hochschild cohomology group HH^1(A)
vanishes. This generalises a result of I. Assem, F.U. Coelho and S. Trepode and
which proves the same equivalence for tame quasitilted algebras.
  The recent discovery of binary objects in the Kuiper-belt opens an invaluable
window into past and present conditions in the trans-Neptunian part of the
Solar System. For example, knowledge of how these objects formed can be used to
impose constraints on planetary formation theories. We have recently proposed a
binary-object formation model based on the notion of chaos-assisted capture.
Here we present a more detailed analysis with calculations performed in the
spatial (three-dimensional) three- and four-body Hill approximations. It is
assumed that the potential binary partners are initially following heliocentric
Keplerian orbits and that their relative motion becomes perturbed as these
objects undergo close encounters. First, the mass, velocity, and orbital
element distribu- tions which favour binary formation are identified in the
circular and elliptical Hill limits. We then consider intruder scattering in
the circular Hill four-body problem and find that the chaos-assisted capture
mechanism is consistent with observed, apparently randomly distributed, binary
mutual orbit inclinations. It also predicts asymmetric distributions of
retrograde versus prograde orbits. The time-delay induced by chaos on particle
transport through the Hill sphere is analogous to the formation of a resonance
in a chemical reaction. Implications for binary formation rates are considered
and the 'fine-tuning' problem recently identified by Noll et al. (2007) is also
addressed.
  We show the existence of an anti-pluricanonical curve on every smooth
projective rational surface X which has an infinite group G of automorphisms of
either null entropy or of type Z . Z (semi-direct product), provided that the
pair (X, G) is minimal. This was conjectured by Curtis T. McMullen (2005) and
further traced back to Marat Gizatullin and Brian Harbourne (1987). We also
prove (perhaps) the strongest form of the famous Tits alternative theorem.
  Using the theory developed by Kenig, Ponce, and Vega, we prove that the
Hirota-Satsuma system is locally well-posed in Sobolev spaces $H^s(\mathbb{R})
\times H^{s}(\mathbb{R})$ for $3/4<s\le1$. We introduce some Bourgain-type
spaces $X_{s,b}^a$ for $a\not =0$, $s,b \in \mathbb{R}$ to obtain local
well-posedness for the Gear-Grimshaw system in $H^s(\mathbb{R})\times
H^s(\mathbb{R})$ for $s>-3/4$, by establishing new mixed-bilinear estimates
involving the two Bourgain-type spaces $X_{s,b}^{-\alpha_-}$ and
$X_{s,b}^{-\alpha_+}$ adapted to $\partial_t+\alpha_-\partial_x^3$ and
$\partial_t+\alpha_+\partial_x^3$ respectively, where
$|\alpha_+|=|\alpha_-|\not = 0$.
  Building on techniques developed by Cowen and Gallardo-Guti\'{e}rrez, we find
a concrete formula for the adjoint of a composition operator with rational
symbol acting on the Hardy space $H^{2}$. We consider some specific examples,
comparing our formula with several results that were previously known.
  We study the Cauchy problem for a system of two coupled nonlinear focusing
Schroedinger equations arising in nonlinear optics. We discuss when the
solutions are global in time or blow-up in finite time. Some results, in
dependence of the data of the problem, are proved; in particular we give a
bound, depending on the coupling parameter, for the blow-up threshold.
  We present a formula for the full Cheeger-Chern-Simons class of the
tautological flat complex vector bundle of rank two over BSL(2,\C^\delta). Our
formula improves the formula by Dupont and Zickert, where the class is only
computed modulo 2-torsion.
  We consider a Brownian particle, with diffusion constant D, moving inside an
expanding d-dimensional sphere whose surface is an absorbing boundary for the
particle. The sphere has initial radius L_0 and expands at a constant rate c.
We calculate the joint probability density, p(r,t|r_0), that the particle
survives until time t, and is at a distance r from the centre of the sphere,
given that it started at a distance r_0 from the centre.
  The telegraph process models a random motion with finite velocity and it is
usually proposed as an alternative to diffusion models. The process describes
the position of a particle moving on the real line, alternatively with constant
velocity $+ v$ or $-v$. The changes of direction are governed by an homogeneous
Poisson process with rate $\lambda >0.$ In this paper, we consider a change
point estimation problem for the rate of the underlying Poisson process by
means of least squares method. The consistency and the rate of convergence for
the change point estimator are obtained and its asymptotic distribution is
derived. Applications to real data are also presented.
  We show that several classical Ramseyan statements, and a forcing statement,
are each equivalent to having Rothberger's property in all finite powers.
  The contact model for the spread of disease may be viewed as a directed
percolation model on $\ZZ \times \RR$ in which the continuum axis is oriented
in the direction of increasing time. Techniques from percolation have enabled a
fairly complete analysis of the contact model at and near its critical point.
The corresponding process when the time-axis is unoriented is an undirected
percolation model to which now standard techniques may be applied. One may
construct in similar vein a random-cluster model on $\ZZ \times \RR$, with
associated continuum Ising and Potts models. These models are of independent
interest, in addition to providing a path-integral representation of the
quantum Ising model with transverse field. This representation may be used to
obtain a bound on the entanglement of a finite set of spins in the quantum
Ising model on $\ZZ$, where this entanglement is measured via the entropy of
the reduced density matrix. The mean-field version of the quantum Ising model
gives rise to a random-cluster model on $K_n \times \RR$, thereby extending the
Erdos-Renyi random graph on the complete graph $K_n$.
  Let D be a smooth bounded pseudoconvex domain in C^n. We give several
characterizations for the closure of D to have a strong Stein neighborhood
basis in the sense that D has a defining function r such that {z\in C^n:r(z)<a}
is pseudoconvex for sufficiently small a>0. We also show that this condition is
invariant under proper holomorphic maps that extend smoothly to the boundary.
  Pfaff lattice was introduced by Adler and van Moerbeke to describe the
partition functions for the random matrix models of GOE and GSE type. The
partition functions of those matrix models are given by the Pfaffians of
certain skew-symmetric matrices called the moment matrices, and they are the
$\tau$-functions of the Pfaff lattice. In this paper, we study a finite version
of the Pfaff lattice equation as a Hamiltonian system. In particular, we prove
the complete integrability in the sense of Arnold-Liouville, and using a moment
map, we describe the real isospectral varieties of the Pfaff lattice. The image
of the moment map is a convex polytope whose vertices are identified as the
fixed points of the flow generated by the Pfaff lattice.
  We define the Z/2Z Hodge spaces H_{pq}(\Sigma) of a fan \Sigma.
  If \Sigma is the normal fan of a reflexive polytope \Delta then we use
polyhedral duality to compute the Z/2Z Hodge Spaces of \Sigma. In particular,
if the cones of dimension at most e in the face fan \Sigma^* of \Delta are
smooth then we compute H_{pq}(\Sigma) for p<e-1. If \Sigma^* is a smooth fan
then we completely determine the spaces H_{pq}(\Sigma) and we show the toric
variety X associated to \Sigma is maximal, meaning that the sum of the Z/2Z
Betti numbers of X(R) is equal to the sum of the Z/2Z Betti numbers of X(C).
  Let $V$ denote a vector space over C with finite positive dimension. By a
{\em Leonard triple} on $V$ we mean an ordered triple of linear operators on
$V$ such that for each of these operators there exists a basis of $V$ with
respect to which the matrix representing that operator is diagonal and the
matrices representing the other two operators are irreducible tridiagonal. Let
$D$ denote a positive integer and let $Q_D$ denote the graph of the
$D$-dimensional hypercube. Let $X$ denote the vertex set of $Q_D$ and let $A$
denote the adjacency matrix of $Q_D$. Fix $x \in X$ and let $A^*$ denote the
corresponding dual adjacency matrix. Let $T$ denote the subalgebra of
$Mat_X(C)$ generated by $A, A^*$. We refer to $T$ as the {\em Terwilliger
algebra of} $Q_D$ {\em with respect to} $x$. The matrices $A$ and $A^*$ are
related by the fact that $2 \im A = A^* A^e - A^e A^*$ and $2 \im A^* = A^e A -
A A^e$, where $2 \im A^e = A A^* - A^* A$ and $\im^2=-1$. We show that the
triple $A$, $A^*$, $A^e$ acts on each irreducible $T$-module as a Leonard
triple. We give a detailed description of these Leonard triples.
  This lecture presents recent advances in the theory of errors propagation. We
first explain in which cases the propagation of errors may be performed with a
first order differential calculus or needs a second order differential
calculus. Then we point out the link between error propagation and the concept
of second order vector in differential geometry, emphasizing the existence of a
slight ambiguity concerning the bias operator. The third part in devoted to the
powerful framework of Dirichlet forms whose main feature is to apply easily to
infinite dimensional models including the Wiener space (giving an
interpretation of Malliavin calculus in terms of errors), the Poisson space and
the Monte Carlo space. In the fourth part we show how an error in the usual
mathematical sense, i.e. an approximate quantity, may yield a Dirichlet form
and we introduce the four bias operators. Eventually we connect the Dirichlet
form with statistics by identifying the square of field operator with the
inverse of the Fisher information matrix.
  In this paper we give a positive answer to a question of Nash concerning the
arc space of a singularity, for the class of quasi-ordinary hypersurface
singularities, extending to this case previous results and techniques of
Shihoko Ishii.
  We use a counting argument and surgery theory to show that if $D$ is a
sufficiently general algebraic hypersurface in $\Bbb C^n$, then any local
diffeomorphism $F:X \to \Bbb C^n$ of simply connected manifolds which is a
$d$-sheeted cover away from $D$ has degree $d=1$ or $d=\infty$ (however all
degrees $d > 1$ are possible if $F$ fails to be a local diffeomorphism at even
a single point). In particular, any \'etale morphism $F:X \to \Bbb C^n$ of
algebraic varieties which covers away from such a hypersurface $D$ must be
birational.
  The structure of subring $J^{\Gamma \cap \Gamma^{-1}}$ of the asymptotic
Hecke algebra is described for $\Gamma$ a left cell of the Coxeter group of
type $H_4$. A small set of generators is produced. The subalgebras spanned by a
subset of the basis ${t_x}_{x\in \Gamma\cap\Gamma^{-1}}$ are determined.
  We prove that the displacement energy of a stable coisotropic submanifold is
bounded away from zero if the ambient symplectic manifold is closed, rational
and satisfies a mild topological condition.
  We present a new class of irregular low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes for
moderate block lengths (up to a few thousand bits) that are well-suited for
rate-compatible puncturing. The proposed codes show good performance under
puncturing over a wide range of rates and are suitable for usage in incremental
redundancy hybrid-automatic repeat request (ARQ) systems. In addition, these
codes are linear-time encodable with simple shift-register circuits. For a
block length of 1200 bits the codes outperform optimized irregular LDPC codes
and extended irregular repeat-accumulate (eIRA) codes for all puncturing rates
0.6~0.9 (base code performance is almost the same) and are particularly good at
high puncturing rates where good puncturing performance has been previously
difficult to achieve.
  Two different approaches to calculate the fusion rules of the c_{p,1} series
of logarithmic conformal field theories are discussed. Both are based on the
modular transformation properties of a basis of chiral vacuum torus amplitudes,
which contains the characters of the irreducible representations. One of these
is an extension, which we develop here for a non-semisimple generalisation of
the Verlinde formula introduced by Fuchs et al., to include fusion products
with indecomposable representations. The other uses the Verlinde formula in its
usual form and gets the fusion coefficients in the limit, in which the basis of
torus amplitudes degenerates to the linear dependent set of characters of
irreducible and indecomposable representations. We discuss the effects, which
this linear dependence has on any result for fusion rules, which are calculated
from these character's modular transformation properties. We show that the two
presented methods are equivalent. Furthermore we calculate explicit BPZ-like
expressions for the resulting fusion rules for all p larger than 2.
  In this paper we consider magnetic Schr\"odinger operators in R^n, n \ge 3.
Under almost optimal conditions on the potentials in terms of decay and
regularity we prove smoothing and Strichartz estimates, as well as a limiting
absorption principle. For large gradient perturbations the latter is not a
corollary of the free case as the differentiated free resolvent does not have
small operator norm on any weighted L^2 spaces.
  We instead show that the spectral radius of such operators decreases to zero,
hence their perturbation of the identity is still invertible. The key estimates
are based on an angular decomposition of the free resolvent, or rather a bound
that holds uniformly for all possible angular decompositions. The proof avoids
the Fourier transform and instead uses H\"ormander's variable coefficient
Plancherel theorem for oscillatory integrals.
  We consider the {\it indexable dictionary} problem, which consists of storing
a set $S \subseteq \{0,...,m-1\}$ for some integer $m$, while supporting the
operations of $\Rank(x)$, which returns the number of elements in $S$ that are
less than $x$ if $x \in S$, and -1 otherwise; and $\Select(i)$ which returns
the $i$-th smallest element in $S$. We give a data structure that supports both
operations in O(1) time on the RAM model and requires ${\cal B}(n,m) + o(n) +
O(\lg \lg m)$ bits to store a set of size $n$, where ${\cal B}(n,m) = \ceil{\lg
{m \choose n}}$ is the minimum number of bits required to store any $n$-element
subset from a universe of size $m$. Previous dictionaries taking this space
only supported (yes/no) membership queries in O(1) time. In the cell probe
model we can remove the $O(\lg \lg m)$ additive term in the space bound,
answering a question raised by Fich and Miltersen, and Pagh.
  We present extensions and applications of our indexable dictionary data
structure, including:
  An information-theoretically optimal representation of a $k$-ary cardinal
tree that supports standard operations in constant time,
  A representation of a multiset of size $n$ from $\{0,...,m-1\}$ in ${\cal
B}(n,m+n) + o(n)$ bits that supports (appropriate generalizations of) $\Rank$
and $\Select$ operations in constant time, and
  A representation of a sequence of $n$ non-negative integers summing up to $m$
in ${\cal B}(n,m+n) + o(n)$ bits that supports prefix sum queries in constant
time.
  In 1980 Jimbo and Miwa evaluated the diagonal two-point correlation function
of the square lattice Ising model as a $\tau$-function of the sixth Painlev\'e
system by constructing an associated isomonodromic system within their theory
of holonomic quantum fields. More recently an alternative isomonodromy theory
was constructed based on bi-orthogonal polynomials on the unit circle with
regular semi-classical weights, for which the diagonal Ising correlations arise
as the leading coefficient of the polynomials specialised appropriately. Here
we demonstrate that the next-to-diagonal correlations of the anisotropic Ising
model are evaluated as one of the elements of this isomonodromic system or
essentially as the Cauchy-Hilbert transform of one of the bi-orthogonal
polynomials.
  Every action on a Poisson manifold by Poisson diffeomorphisms lifts to a
Hamiltonian action on its symplectic groupoid which has a canonically defined
momentum map. We study various properties of this momentum map as well as its
use in reduction.
  This paper considers the multi-input multi-output (MIMO) relay channel where
multiple antennas are employed by each terminal. Compared to single-input
single-output (SISO) relay channels, MIMO relay channels introduce additional
degrees of freedom, making the design and analysis of optimal cooperative
strategies more complex. In this paper, a partial cooperation strategy that
combines transmit-side message splitting and block-Markov encoding is
presented. Lower bounds on capacity that improve on a previously proposed
non-cooperative lower bound are derived for Gaussian MIMO relay channels.
  We examine resonances for two systems consisting of a particle coupled to a
massless boson's field. The field is the free field in the whole space. In the
first system, the particle is confined inside a ball. We show that besides the
usual energy levels of the particle, which have become complex through the
coupling to the field, other resonances are to be taken into account if the
ball's radius is comparable to the particle's Compton wavelength. In the second
system, the particle is in a finite-depth square-well potential. We study the
way the resonances' width depends on the extent of the uncoupled particle's
wave functions. In both cases, we limit ourselves to considering two levels of
the particle only.
  The present article is devoted to a fine study of the convergence of
renormalized weighted quadratic and cubic variations of a fractional Brownian
motion $B$ with Hurst index $H$. In the quadratic (resp. cubic) case, when
$H<1/4$ (resp. $H<1/6$), we show by means of Malliavin calculus that the
convergence holds in $L^2$ toward an explicit limit which only depends on $B$.
This result is somewhat surprising when compared with the celebrated Breuer and
Major theorem.
  The Minkowski Question Mark function can be characterized as the unique
homeomorphism of the real unit interval that conjugates the Farey map with the
tent map. We construct an n-dimensional analogue of the Minkowski function as
the only homeomorphism of an n-simplex that conjugates the piecewise-fractional
map associated to the Monkemeyer continued fraction algorithm with an
appropriate tent map.
  We prove that every complete connected immersed surface with positive
extrinsic curvature $K$ in $H^2\times R$ must be properly embedded,
homeomorphic to a sphere or a plane and, in the latter case, study the behavior
of the end. Then, we focus our attention on surfaces with positive constant
extrinsic curvature ($K-$surfaces). We establish that the only complete
$K-$surfaces in $S^2\times R$ and $H^2\times R$ are rotational spheres. Here
are the key steps to achieve this. First height estimates for compact
$K-$surfaces in a general ambient space $M^2\times R$ with boundary in a slice
are obtained. Then distance estimates for compact $K-$surfaces (and
H-$surfaces) in $H^2\times R$ with boundary on a vertical plane are obtained.
Finally we construct a quadratic form with isolated zeroes of negative index.
  This article surveys many standard results about the braid group with
emphasis on simplifying the usual algebraic proofs.
  We use van der Waerden's trick to illuminate the Artin-Magnus proof of the
classic presentation of the algebraic mapping-class group of a punctured disc.
  We give a simple, new proof of the Dehornoy-Larue braid-group trichotomy,
and, hence, recover the Dehornoy right-ordering of the braid group.
  We then turn to the Birman-Hilden theorem concerning braid-group actions on
free products of cyclic groups, and the consequences derived by Perron-Vannier,
and the connections with the Wada representations. We recall the very simple
Crisp-Paris proof of the Birman-Hilden theorem that uses the Larue-Shpilrain
technique. Studying ends of free groups permits a deeper understanding of the
braid group; this gives us a generalization of the Birman-Hilden theorem.
Studying Jordan curves in the punctured disc permits a still deeper
understanding of the braid group; this gave Larue, in his PhD thesis,
correspondingly deeper results, and, in an appendix, we recall the essence of
Larue's thesis, giving simpler combinatorial proofs.
  Following the lines of a celebrated result by R. Bott (Comm. Pure Appl. Math.
9, 1956) we study the Morse index of the iterated of a closed geodesic in
stationary Lorentzian manifolds, or, more generally, of a closed Lorentzian
geodesic that admits a timelike periodic Jacobi field. Given one such closed
geodesic $\gamma$, we prove the existence of a locally constant integer valued
map $\Lambda_\gamma$ on the unit circle with the property that the Morse index
of the iterated $\gamma^N$ is equal, up to a correction term
$\epsilon_\gamma\in\{0,1\}$, to the sum of the values of $\Lambda_\gamma$ at
the $N$-th roots of unity. The discontinuities of $\Lambda_\gamma$ occur at a
finite number of points of the unit circle, that are special eigenvalues of the
linearized Poincar\'e map of $\gamma$. We discuss some applications of the
theory.
  A complex manifold Y satisfies the Convex Approximation Property (CAP) if
every holomorphic map from a neighborhood of a compact convex set K in a
complex Euclidean space C^n to Y can be approximated, uniformly on K, by entire
maps from C^n to Y. If X is a reduced Stein space and Z is a stratified
holomorphic fiber bundle over X all of whose fibers satisfy CAP, then sections
of Z over X enjoy the Oka property with (jet) interpolation and approximation.
Previously this has been proved by the author in the case when X is a Stein
manifold without singularities (Ann. Math., 163 (2006), 689-707,
math.CV/0402278; Ann. Inst. Fourier, 55 (2005), 733-751, math.CV/0411048). We
also give existence results for holomorphic sections under certain connectivity
hypothesis on the fibers. In the final part of the paper we obtain the Oka
property for sections of submersions with stratified sprays over Stein spaces.
  We define Poincar\'e series associated to a toric or analytically irreducible
quasi-ordinary hypersurface singularity, (S,0), by a finite sequence of
monomial valuations, such that at least one of them is centered at the origin
0. This involves the definition of a multi-graded ring associated to the
analytic algebra of the singularity by the sequence of valuations. We prove
that the Poincar\'e series is a rational function with integer coefficients,
which can be defined also as an integral with respect of the Euler
characteristic, over the projectivization of the analytic algebra of the
singularity, of a function defined by the valuations. In particular, the
Poincar\'e series associated to the set of divisorial valuations associated to
the essential divisors, considered both over the singular locus and over the
point 0, is an analytic invariant of the singularity. In the quasi-ordinary
hypersurface case we prove that this Poincar\'e series determines and it is
determined by the normalized sequence of characteristic monomials. These
monomials in the analytic case define a complete invariant of the embedded
topological type of the hypersurface singularity.
  We present a self-contained proof that the number of diameter pairs among n
points in Euclidean 3-space is at most 2n-2. The proof avoids the ball
polytopes used in the original proofs by Grunbaum, Heppes and Straszewicz. As a
corollary we obtain that any three-dimensional diameter graph can be embedded
in the projective plane.
  The Navier-Stokes equations and magnetohydrodynamics equations are written in
terms of poloidal and toroidal potentials in a finite cylinder. This
formulation insures that the velocity and magnetic fields are divergence-free
by construction, but leads to systems of partial differential equations of
higher order, whose boundary conditions are coupled. The influence matrix
technique is used to transform these systems into decoupled parabolic and
elliptic problems. The magnetic field in the induction equation is matched to
that in an exterior vacuum by means of the Dirichlet-to-Neumann mapping, thus
eliminating the need to discretize the exterior. The influence matrix is scaled
in order to attain an acceptable condition number.
  The classical Euler's problem on stationary configurations of elastic rod
with fixed endpoints and tangents at the endpoints is considered as a
left-invariant optimal control problem on the group of motions of a
two-dimensional plane $\E(2)$.
  The attainable set is described, existence and boundedness of optimal
controls are proved. Extremals are parametrized by Jacobi's elliptic functions
of natural coordinates induced by the flow of the mathematical pendulum on
fibers of the cotangent bundle of $\E(2)$.
  The group of discrete symmetries of Euler's problem generated by reflections
in the phase space of the pendulum is studied. The corresponding Maxwell points
are completely described via the study of fixed points of this group. As a
consequence, an upper bound on cut points in Euler's problem is obtained.
  We introduce a new norm, called $N^{p}$-norm $(1\leq{p}<\infty)$ on a space
$N^{p}(V,W)$ where $V$ and $W$ are abstract operator spaces. By proving some
fundamental properties of the space $N^{p}(V,W)$, we also obtain that if $W$ is
complete, then the space $N^{p}(V,W)$ is also a Banach space with respect to
this norm for $1\leq{p}<\infty$.
  We review the deformed W-algebra Wqt(sl_N^) and its screening currents. We
explicitly construct the local integrals of motion I_n for this deformed
W-algebra. We explicitly construct the nonlocal integrals of motion G_n by
means of the screening currents. Our integrals of motion commute with each
other, and give the elliptic version of those for the Virasoro algebra and the
W-algebra W(sl_3^), obtained by V.Bazhanov, A.Hibberd, S.Khoroshkin, S.Lukyanov
and Al.Zamolodchikov.
  Let f be a sum of exponentials of the form exp(2 pi i N x), where the N are
distinct integers. We call f an idempotent trigonometric polynomial (because
the convolution of f with itself is f) or, simply, an idempotent. We show that
for every p > 1, and every set E of the torus T = R/Z with |E| > 0, there are
idempotents concentrated on E in the Lp sense. More precisely, for each p > 1,
there is an explicitly calculated constant Cp > 0 so that for each E with |E| >
0 and epsilon > 0 one can find an idempotent f such that the pth root of the
ratio of the integral over E of the pth power of |f| to the integral over T of
the pth power of |f| is greater than Cp - epsilon. This is in fact a lower
bound result and, though not optimal, it is close to the best that our method
gives. We also give both heuristic and computational evidence for the still
open problem of whether the Lp concentration phenomenon fails to occur when p =
1.
  In a rigorous construction of the path integral for supersymmetric quantum
mechanics on a Riemann manifold, based on B\"ar and Pf\"affle's use of
piecewise geodesic paths, the kernel of the time evolution operator is the heat
kernel for the Laplacian on forms. The path integral is approximated by the
integral of a form on the space of piecewise geodesic paths which is the
pullback by a natural section of Mathai and Quillen's Thom form of a bundle
over this space.
  In the case of closed paths, the bundle is the tangent space to the space of
geodesic paths, and the integral of this form passes in the limit to the
supertrace of the heat kernel.
  In this paper, we characterize a class of additive maps on Hilbert
$C^\ast$-modules which maps a "rank one" adjointable operators to another rank
one operators.
  A spectral method is described for solving coupled elliptic problems on an
interior and an exterior domain. The method is formulated and tested on the
two-dimensional interior Poisson and exterior Laplace problems, whose solutions
and their normal derivatives are required to be continuous across the
interface. A complete basis of homogeneous solutions for the interior and
exterior regions, corresponding to all possible Dirichlet boundary values at
the interface, are calculated in a preprocessing step. This basis is used to
construct the influence matrix which serves to transform the coupled boundary
conditions into conditions on the interior problem. Chebyshev approximations
are used to represent both the interior solutions and the boundary values. A
standard Chebyshev spectral method is used to calculate the interior solutions.
The exterior harmonic solutions are calculated as the convolution of the
free-space Green's function with a surface density; this surface density is
itself the solution to an integral equation which has an analytic solution when
the boundary values are given as a Chebyshev expansion. Properties of Chebyshev
approximations insure that the basis of exterior harmonic functions represents
the external near-boundary solutions uniformly. The method is tested by
calculating the electrostatic potential resulting from charge distributions in
a rectangle. The resulting influence matrix is well-conditioned and solutions
converge exponentially as the resolution is increased. The generalization of
this approach to three-dimensional problems is discussed, in particular the
magnetohydrodynamic equations in a finite cylindrical domain surrounded by a
vacuum.
  We consider the Kalman - Yakubovich - Popov (KYP) inequality \[
\begin{pmatrix} X-A^* XA-C^*C & -A^*X B- C^*D\cr -B^*X A-D^* C & I- B^*X B-D^*D
\end{pmatrix} \ge 0 \] for contractive operator matrices $ \begin{pmatrix}
A&B\cr C &D \end{pmatrix}:\begin{pmatrix}\mathfrak{H}\cr\mathfrak{M}
\end{pmatrix}\to\begin{pmatrix}\mathfrak{H}\cr\mathfrak{N} \end{pmatrix}, $
where $\mathfrak{H},$ $\mathfrak{M}$, and $\mathfrak{N}$ are separable Hilbert
spaces. We restrict ourselves to the solutions $X$ from the operator interval
$[0, I_\mathfrak{H}]$. Several equivalent forms of KYP are obtained. Using the
parametrization of the blocks of contractive operator matrices, the Kre\u{\i}n
shorted operator, and the M\"obius representation of the Schur class
operator-valued function we find several equivalent forms of the KYP
inequality. Properties of solutions are established and it is proved that the
minimal solution of the KYP inequality satisfies the corresponding algebraic
Riccati equation and can be obtained by the iterative procedure with the
special choice of the initial point. In terms of the Kre\u{\i}n shorted
operators a necessary condition and some sufficient conditions for uniqueness
of the solution are established.
  We study spectral properties of a system of two quantum particles on an
integer lattice with a bounded short-range two-body interaction, in an external
random potential field $V(x,\omega)$ with independent, identically distributed
values. The main result is that if the common probability density $f$ of random
variables $V(x,\omega)$ is analytic in a strip around the real line and the
amplitude constant $g$ is large enough (i.e. the system is at high disorder),
then, with probability one, the spectrum of the two-particle lattice
Schroedinger operator $H(\omega)$ (bosonic or fermionic) is pure point, and all
eigen-functions decay exponentially. The proof given in this paper is based on
a refinement of a multiscale analysis (MSA) scheme proposed by von Dreifus and
Klein, adapted to incorporate lattice systems with interaction.
  We prove that a law of large numbers and a central limit theorem hold for the
excited random walk model in every dimension $d \geq 2$.
  Let X be the blow-up of the three dimensional complex projective space along
r general points of a smooth elliptic quartic curve B of P^3 and let L be any
line bundle of X. The aim of this paper is to provide an explicit algorithm for
determining the dimension of H^0(X,L).
  We classify Lagrangian subcategories of the representation category of a
twisted quantum double of a finite group. In view of results of 0704.0195v2
this gives a complete description of all braided tensor equivalent pairs of
twisted quantum doubles of finite groups. We also establish a canonical
bijection between Lagrangian subcategories of the representation category of a
twisted quantum double of a finite group G and module categories over the
category of twisted G-graded vector spaces such that the dual tensor category
is pointed. This can be viewed as a quantum version of V. Drinfeld's
characterization of homogeneous spaces of a Poisson-Lie group in terms of
Lagrangian subalgebras of the double of its Lie bialgebra. As a consequence, we
obtain that two group-theoretical fusion categories are weakly Morita
equivalent if and only if their centers are equivalent as braided tensor
categories.
  We define a new combinatorial complex computing the hat version of link Floer
homology over Z/2Z, which turns out to be significantly smaller than the
Manolescu-Ozsvath-Sarkar one.
  The Besicovitch pseudodistance measures the relative size of the set of
points where two functions take different values; the quotient space modulo the
induced equivalence relation is endowed with a natural metric. We study the
behavior of cellular automata in the new topology and show that, under suitable
additional hypotheses, they retain certain properties possessed in the usual
product topology; in particular, that injectivity still implies surjectivity.
  The Positive Mass Conjecture states that any complete asymptotically flat
manifold of nonnnegative scalar curvature has nonnegative mass. Moreover, the
equality case of the Positive Mass Conjecture states that in the above
situation, if the mass is zero, then the Riemannian manifold must be Euclidean
space. The Positive Mass Conjecture was proved by R. Schoen and S.-T. Yau for
all manifolds of dimension less than 8, and it was proved by E. Witten for all
spin manifolds. In this paper, we consider complete asymptotically flat
manifolds of nonnegative scalar curvature that are also harmonically flat in an
end. We show that, whenever the Positive Mass Theorem holds, any appropriately
normalized sequence of such manifolds whose masses converge to zero must have
metrics that are uniformly converging to Euclidean metrics outside a compact
region. This result is an ingredient in a forthcoming proof, co-authored with
H. Bray, of the Riemannian Penrose inequality in dimensions less than 8.
  This is a sequel to \cite{li-qva1} and \cite{li-qva2} in a series to study
vertex algebra-like structures arising from various algebras such as quantum
affine algebras and Yangians. In this paper, we study two versions of the
double Yangian $DY_{\hbar}(sl_{2})$, denoted by $DY_{q}(sl_{2})$ and
$DY_{q}^{\infty}(sl_{2})$ with $q$ a nonzero complex number. For each nonzero
complex number $q$, we construct a quantum vertex algebra $V_{q}$ and prove
that every $DY_{q}(sl_{2})$-module is naturally a $V_{q}$-module. We also show
that $DY_{q}^{\infty}(sl_{2})$-modules are what we call
$V_{q}$-modules-at-infinity. To achieve this goal, we study what we call
$\S$-local subsets and quasi-local subsets of $\Hom (W,W((x^{-1})))$ for any
vector space $W$, and we prove that any $\S$-local subset generates a (weak)
quantum vertex algebra and that any quasi-local subset generates a vertex
algebra with $W$ as a (left) quasi module-at-infinity. Using this result we
associate the Lie algebra of pseudo-differential operators on the circle with
vertex algebras in terms of quasi modules-at-infinity.
  The $n$-dimensional complex hyperquadric is a compact complex algebraic
hypersurface defined by the quadratic equation in the $(n+1)$-dimensional
complex projective space, which is isometric to the real Grassmann manifold of
oriented 2- planes and is a compact Hermitian symmetric space of rank 2. In
this paper we study geometry of compact Lagrangian submanifolds in complex
hyperquadrics from the viewpoint of the theory of isoparametric hypersurfaces
in spheres. From this viewpoint we provide a classification theorem of compact
homogeneous Lagrangian submanifolds in complex hyperquadrics by using the
moment map technique. Moreover we determine the Hamiltonian stability of
compact minimal Lagrangian submanifolds embedded in complex hyperquadrics which
are obtained as Gauss images of isoparametric hypersurfaces in spheres with
$g(=1,2,3)$ distinct principal curvatures.
  We introduce signed q-analogs of Tornheim's double series, and evaluate them
in terms of double q-Euler sums. As a consequence, we provide explicit
evaluations of signed and unsigned Tornheim double series, and correct some
mistakes in the literature.
  Ordinary and gl(n,R) generalized Toda systems as well as a related hierarchy
are probed with respect to certain quantization characteristics. "Quantum"
canonical and Poisson transformations are used to study quantizations of
transformed Toda systems. With a Lax pair setting, a hierarchy of related
systems are shown and their quantizations discussed. Finally, comments are
added about quantum aspects of gl(n,R) generalized Toda systems with the
approaches of deformation quantization or quantum groups in mind.
  Consider the gradient map associated to any non-constant homogeneous
polynomial $f\in \C[x_0,...,x_n]$ of degree $d$, defined by \[\phi_f=grad(f):
D(f)\to \CP^n, (x_0:...:x_n)\to (f_0(x):...:f_n(x))\] where $D(f)=\{x\in \CP^n;
f(x)\neq 0\}$ is the principal open set associated to $f$ and
$f_i=\frac{\partial f}{\partial x_i}$. This map corresponds to polar Cremona
transformations. In Proposition \ref{p1} we give a new lower bound for the
degree $d(f)$ of $\phi_f$ under the assumption that the projective hypersurface
$V:f=0 $ has only isolated singularities. When $d(f)=1$, Theorem \ref{t4}
yields very strong conditions on the singularities of $V$.
  We prove that any compact complex surface with positive first Chern class
admits an Einstein metric which is conformally related to a Kaehler metric. The
key new ingredient is the existence of such a metric on the blow-up of the
complex projective plane at two distinct points.
  We prove general reflection positivity results for both scalar fields and
Dirac fields on a Riemannian manifold, and comment on applications to quantum
field theory. As another application, we prove the inequality $C_D \leq C_N$
between Dirichlet and Neumann covariance operators on a manifold with a
reflection.
  Let $\F_q$ be a finite field of order $q$ and $P$ be a polynomial in
$\F_q[x_1, x_2]$. For a set $A \subset \F_q$, define $P(A):=\{P(x_1, x_2) | x_i
\in A \}$. Using certain constructions of expanders, we characterize all
polynomials $P$ for which the following holds
  \vskip2mm \centerline{\it If $|A+A|$ is small, then $|P(A)|$ is large.}
\vskip2mm
  The case $P=x_1x_2$ corresponds to the well-known sum-product problem.
  For a compact Riemann surface X of positive genus, the space of sections of
certain theta bundle on moduli of bundles of rank r and level k admits a
natural map to (the dual of) a similar space of sections of rank k and level r
(the strange duality isomorphism). Both sides of the isomorphism carry
projective connections as X varies in a family. We prove that this map is
(projectively) flat.
  We consider a diffusion model with limit cycle reaction functions, in the
presence of convection. We select a set of functions derived from a realistic
reaction model: the Schnakenberg equations. This resultant form is
unsymmetrical. We find a transformation which maps the irregular equations into
model form. Next we transform the dependent variables into polar form. From
here, a travelling wave analysis is performed on the radial variable. Results
are complex, but we make some simple estimates.
  We carry out numerical experiments to test our analysis. An initial `knock'
starts the propagation of pattern. The speed of the travelling wave is not
quite as expected. We investigate further. The system demonstrates distinctly
different behaviour to the left and the right. We explain how this phenomenon
occurs by examining the underlying behaviour.
  Assuming the Riemann Hypothesis we establish an upper bound for the sum of
the M{\" o}bius function up to $x$. Our method is based on estimating the
frequency with which intervals of a given length can contain an unusual number
of ordinates of zeros of the Riemann zeta-function.
  We present the classical solutions of the two-center MICZ-Kepler and
MICZ-Kepler-Stark systems. Then we suggest the model of multi-center
MICZ-Kepler system on the curved spaces equipped with $so(3)$-invariant
conformal flat metrics.
  In a number of physically important cases, the nonholonomically
(nonintegrable) constrained Ricci flows can be modelled by exact solutions of
Einstein equations with nonhomogeneous (anisotropic) cosmological constants. We
develop two geometric methods for constructing such solutions: The first
approach applies the formalism of nonholonomic frame deformations when the
gravitational evolution and field equations transform into systems of nonlinear
partial differential equations which can be integrated in general form. The
second approach develops a general scheme when one (two) parameter families of
exact solutions are defined by any source-free solutions of Einstein's
equations with one (two) Killing vector field(s). A successive iteration
procedure results in a class of solutions characterized by an infinite number
of parameters for a non-Abelian group involving arbitrary functions on one
variable. We also consider nonlinear superpositions of some mentioned classes
of solutions in order to construct more general integral varieties of the Ricci
flow and Einstein equations depending on infinite number of parameters and
three/ four coordinates on four/ five dimensional (semi) Riemannian spaces.
  We study Ricci flows of some classes of physically valuable solutions in
Einstein and string gravity. The anholonomic frame method is applied for
generic off-diagonal metric ansatz when the field/ evolution equations are
transformed into exactly integrable systems of partial differential equations.
The integral varieties of such solutions, in four and five dimensional gravity,
depend on arbitrary generation and integration functions of one, two and/ or
three variables. Certain classes of nonholonomic frame constraints allow us to
select vacuum and/or Einstein metrics, to generalize such solutions for
nontrivial string (for instance, with antisymmetric torsion fields) and matter
field sources. A very important property of this approach (originating from
Finsler and Lagrange geometry but re-defined for semi-Riemannian spaces) is
that new classes of exact solutions can be generated by nonholonomic
deformations depending on parameters associated to some generalized Geroch
transforms and Ricci flow evolution. In this paper, we apply the method to
construct in explicit form some classes of exact solutions for multi-parameter
Einstein spaces and their nonholonomic Ricci flows describing evolutions/
interactions of solitonic pp-waves and deformations of the Schwarzschild
metric. We explore possible physical consequences and speculate on their
importance in modern gravity.
  Let $T$ be the triangle with vertices (1,0), (0,1), (1,1). We study certain
integrals over $T$, one of which was computed by Euler. We give expressions for
them both as a linear combination of multiple zeta values, and as a polynomial
in single zeta values. We obtain asymptotic expansions of the integrals, and of
sums of certain multiple zeta values with constant weight. We also give related
expressions for Euler's constant. In the final section, we evaluate more
general integrals -- one is a Chen (Drinfeld-Kontsevich) iterated integral --
over some polytopes that are higher-dimensional analogs of $T$. This leads to a
relation between certain multiple polylogarithm values and multiple zeta
values.
  In this paper, we show another proof of the problem by constructing a strict
monoidal category M(C) consisting of M-functors and M-morphisms of a category C
and we prove C is equivalent to it. The proof is based on a basic character of
monoidal equivalences. Ideas and techniques of these proofs can been used to
prove the equivalence between an Ann-category and an almost strict
Ann-category.
  This is a sequel to [Ca01]=math.AG/0110051. We define the bimeromorphic {\it
category} of geometric orbifolds. These interpolate between (compact K\" ahler)
manifolds and such manifolds with logarithmic structure. These geometric
orbifolds are considered from the point of view of their geometry, and thus
equipped with the usual invariants of varieties: morphisms and bimeromorphic
maps, differential forms, fundamental groups and universal covers, fields of
definition and rational points. The most elementary properties, directly
adapted from the case of varieties without orbifold structure, are established
here. The arguments of [Ca01] can then be directly adapted to extend the main
structure results to this orbifold category. We hope to come back to deeper
aspects later. The motivation is that the natural frame for the theory of
classification of compact K\" ahler (and complex projective) manifolds includes
at least the category of orbifolds, as shown in [Ca01] by the fonctorial
decomposition of {\it special} manifolds as tower of orbifolds with either
$\kappa_+=-\infty$ or $\kappa=0$, and also, seemingly, by the minimal model
program, in which most proofs work only after the adjunction of a "boundary".
  Also, fibrations enjoy in the bimeromorphic category of geometric orbifolds
extension properties not satisfied in the category of varieties without
orbifold structure, permitting to express invariants of the total space from
those of the generic fibre and of the base. For example, the natural sequence
of fundamental groups is exact there; also the total space is special if so are
the generic fibre and the base. This makes this category suitable to lift
properties from orbifolds having either $\kappa_+=-\infty$ or $\kappa=0$ to
those which are special.
  Let $f\in \mathbb{C}[X_1,..., X_n]$ be a homogeneous polynomial and B(f) be
the corresponding Brieskorn module. We describe the torsion of the Brieskorn
module B(f) for n=2 and show that any torsion element has order 1. For n>2, we
find some examples in which the torsion order is strictly greater than 1.
  We report on transcritical bifurcations of periodic orbits in non-integrable
two-dimensional Hamiltonian systems. We discuss their existence criteria and
some of their properties using a recent mathematical description of
transcritical bifurcations in families of symplectic maps. We then present
numerical examples of transcritical bifurcations in a class of generalized
H\'enon-Heiles Hamiltonians and illustrate their stabilities and unfoldings
under various perturbations of the Hamiltonians. We demonstrate that for
Hamiltonians containing straight-line librating orbits, the transcritical
bifurcation of these orbits is the typical case which occurs also in the
absence of any discrete symmetries, while their isochronous pitchfork
bifurcation is an exception. We determine the normal forms of both types of
bifurcations and derive the uniform approximation required to include
transcritically bifurcating orbits in the semiclassical trace formula for the
density of states of the quantum Hamiltonian. We compute the coarse-grained
density of states in a specific example both semiclassically and quantum
mechanically and find excellent agreement of the results.
  In the 1980's Stallings showed that every finitely generated subgroup of a
free group is canonically represented by a finite minimal immersion of a
bouquet of circles. In terms of the theory of automata, this is a minimal
finite inverse automaton. This allows for the deep algorithmic theory of finite
automata and finite inverse monoids to be used to answer questions about
finitely generated subgroups of free groups.
  In this paper we attempt to apply the same methods to other classes of
groups. A fundamental new problem is that the Stallings folding algorithm must
be modified to allow for ``sewing'' on relations of non-free groups. We look at
the class of groups that are amalgams of finite groups. It is known that these
groups are locally quasiconvex and thus all finitely generated subgroups are
represented by finite automata. We present an algorithm to compute such a
finite automaton and use it to solve various algorithmic problems.
  Geometric methods proposed by Stallings for treating finitely generated
subgroups of free groups were successfully used to solve a wide collection of
decision problems for free groups and their subgroups.
  It turns out that Stallings' methods can be effectively generalized for the
class of amalgams of finite groups. In the present paper we employ subgroup
graphs constructed by the generalized Stallings' folding algorithm to solve
various algorithmic problems in amalgams of finite groups.
  Max-product belief propagation is a local, iterative algorithm to find the
mode/MAP estimate of a probability distribution. While it has been successfully
employed in a wide variety of applications, there are relatively few
theoretical guarantees of convergence and correctness for general loopy graphs
that may have many short cycles. Of these, even fewer provide exact ``necessary
and sufficient'' characterizations.
  In this paper we investigate the problem of using max-product to find the
maximum weight matching in an arbitrary graph with edge weights. This is done
by first constructing a probability distribution whose mode corresponds to the
optimal matching, and then running max-product. Weighted matching can also be
posed as an integer program, for which there is an LP relaxation. This
relaxation is not always tight. In this paper we show that \begin{enumerate}
\item If the LP relaxation is tight, then max-product always converges, and
that too to the correct answer. \item If the LP relaxation is loose, then
max-product does not converge. \end{enumerate} This provides an exact,
data-dependent characterization of max-product performance, and a precise
connection to LP relaxation, which is a well-studied optimization technique.
Also, since LP relaxation is known to be tight for bipartite graphs, our
results generalize other recent results on using max-product to find weighted
matchings in bipartite graphs.
  The purpose of this note is to study the bounded isometry conjecture proposed
by Lalonde and Polterovich. In particular, we show that the conjecture holds
for the Kodaira-Thurston manifold with the standard symplectic form and for the
4-torus with all linear symplectic forms.
  The aim of this work is to develop a systematic manner to close
overdetermined systems arising from conformal Killing tensors (CKT). The
research performs this action for 1-tensor and 2-tensors. This research makes
it possible to develop a new general method for any rank of CKT. This method
can also be applied to other types of Killing equations, as well as to
overdetermined systems constrained by some other conditions.
  The major methodological apparatus of the research is a decomposition of the
section bundles where the covariant derivatives of the CKT land via generalized
gradients. This decomposition generates a tree in which each row represents a
higher derivative. After using the conformal Killing equation, just a few
components (branches) survive, which means that most of them can be expressed
in terms of lower order terms. This results in a finite number of independent
jets. Thus, any higher covariant derivative can be written in terms of these
jets.
  The findings of this work are significant methodologically and, more
specifically, in the potential for the discovery of symmetries. First, this
work has uncovered a new method that could be used to close overdetermined
systems arising from conformal Killing tensors (CKT). Second, through an
application of this method, this research finds higher symmetry operators of
first and second degree, which are known by other means, for the Laplace
operator. The findings also reveal the first order symmetry operators for the
Yamabe case. Moreover, the research leads to conjectures about the second order
symmetries of the Yamabe operator.
  Let (M,g_0) be a compact Riemannian manifold with pointwise 1/4-pinched
sectional curvatures. We show that the Ricci flow deforms g_0 to a constant
curvature metric. The proof uses the fact, also established in this paper, that
positive isotropic curvature is preserved by the Ricci flow in all dimensions.
We also rely on earlier work of Hamilton and of Bohm and Wilking.
  Translation of "Methodus succincta summas serierum infinitarum per formulas
differentiales investigandi" (1780). Euler wants to represent some given series
of functions S(x)=X(x)+X(x+1)+X(x+2)+etc. in a different way. He writes S as a
series in derivatives of X with unknown coefficients. He makes a generating
function V(z) out of these coefficients, which is the same as a generating
function that involves the Bernoulli numbers.
  We study subrings in the Chow ring $\CH^*(A)_{{\Bbb Q}}$ of an abelian
variety $A$, stable under the Fourier transform with respect to an arbitrary
polarization. We prove that by taking Pontryagin products of classes of
dimension $\leq 1$ one gets such a subring. We also show how to construct
finite-dimensional Fourier-stable subrings in $\CH^*(A)_{{\Bbb Q}}$. Another
result concerns the relation between the Pontryagin product and the usual
product on the $\CH^*(A)_{{\Bbb Q}}$. We prove that the operator of the usual
product with a cycle is a differential operator with respect to the Pontryagin
product and compute its order in terms of the Beauville's decomposition of
$\CH^*(A)_{{\Bbb Q}}$.
  A real X is defined to be relatively c.e. if there is a real Y such that X is
c.e.(Y) and Y does not compute X. A real X is relatively simple and above if
there is a real Y <_T X such that X is c.e.(Y) and there is no infinite subset
Z of the complement of X such that Z is c.e.(Y). We prove that every nonempty
Pi^0_1 class contains a member which is not relatively c.e. and that every
1-generic real is relatively simple and above.
  For each pair $(e,\sigma)$ of integers satisfying $2e+3\sigma\ge 0$,
$\sigma\leq -2$, and $e+\sigma\equiv 0\pmod{4}$, with four exceptions, we
construct a minimal, simply connected symplectic 4-manifold with Euler
characteristic $e$ and signature $\sigma$. We also produce simply connected,
minimal symplectic 4-manifolds with signature zero (resp. signature -1) with
Euler characteristic $4k$ (resp. $4k+1$) for all $k\ge 46$ (resp. $k\ge 49$).
  This paper focuses on the issue of energy efficiency in wireless data
networks through a game theoretic approach. The case considered is that in
which each user is allowed to vary its transmit power, spreading code, and
uplink receiver in order to maximize its own utility, which is here defined as
the ratio of data throughput to transmit power. In particular, the case in
which linear multiuser detectors are employed at the receiver is treated first,
and, then, the more challenging case in which non-linear decision feedback
multiuser receivers are adopted is addressed. It is shown that, for both
receivers, the problem at hand of utility maximization can be regarded as a
non-cooperative game, and it is proved that a unique Nash equilibrium point
exists. Simulation results show that significant performance gains can be
obtained through both non-linear processing and spreading code optimization; in
particular, for systems with a number of users not larger than the processing
gain, remarkable gains come from spreading code optimization, while, for
overloaded systems, the largest gainscome from the use of non-linear
processing. In every case, however, the non-cooperative games proposed here are
shown to outperform competing alternatives.
  The Navier-Stokes equations in a finite cylinder are written in terms of
poloidal and toroidal potentials in order to impose incompressibility.
Regularity of the solutions is ensured in several ways: First, the potentials
are represented using a spectral basis which is analytic at the cylindrical
axis. Second, the non-physical discontinuous boundary conditions at the
cylindrical corners are smoothed using a polynomial approximation to a steep
exponential profile. Third, the nonlinear term is evaluated in such a way as to
eliminate singularities. The resulting pseudo-spectral code is tested using
exact polynomial solutions and the spectral convergence of the coefficients is
demonstrated. Our solutions are shown to agree with exact polynomial solutions
and with previous axisymmetric calculations of vortex breakdown and of
nonaxisymmetric calculations of onset of helical spirals. Parallelization by
azimuthal wavenumber is shown to be highly effective.
  In this paper, we study the perturbative aspects of a "B-twisted"
two-dimensional $(0,2)$ heterotic sigma model on a holomorphic gauge bundle
$\mathcal E$ over a complex, hermitian manifold $X$. We show that the model can
be naturally described in terms of the mathematical theory of ``Chiral
Differential Operators". In particular, the physical anomalies of the sigma
model can be reinterpreted as an obstruction to a global definition of the
associated sheaf of vertex superalgebras derived from the free conformal field
theory describing the model locally on $X$. In addition, one can also obtain a
novel understanding of the sigma model one-loop beta function solely in terms
of holomorphic data. At the $(2,2)$ locus, one can describe the resulting
half-twisted variant of the topological B-model in terms of a $\it{mirror}$
"Chiral de Rham complex" (or CDR) defined by Malikov et al. in \cite{GMS1}. Via
mirror symmetry, one can also derive various conjectural expressions relating
the sheaf cohomology of the mirror CDR to that of the original CDR on pairs of
Calabi-Yau mirror manifolds. An analysis of the half-twisted model on a
non-K\"ahler group manifold with torsion also allows one to draw conclusions
about the corresponding sheaves of CDR (and its mirror) that are consistent
with mathematically established results by Ben-Bassat in \cite{ben} on the
mirror symmetry of generalised complex manifolds. These conclusions therefore
suggest an interesting relevance of the sheaf of CDR in the recent study of
generalised mirror symmetry.
  We show the asymptotic long-time equivalence of a generic power law waiting
time distribution to the Mittag-Leffler waiting time distribution,
characteristic for a time fractional CTRW. This asymptotic equivalence is
effected by a combination of "rescaling" time and "respeeding" the relevant
renewal process followed by a passage to a limit for which we need a suitable
relation between the parameters of rescaling and respeeding. Turning our
attention to spatially 1-D CTRWs with a generic power law jump distribution,
"rescaling" space can be interpreted as a second kind of "respeeding" which
then, again under a proper relation between the relevant parameters leads in
the limit to the space-time fractional diffusion equation. Finally, we treat
the `time fractional drift" process as a properly scaled limit of the counting
number of a Mittag-Leffler renewal process.
  A partial description of the structure of positive unital maps $\phi:
M_2(\bC) \to M_{n+1}(\bC)$ ($n\geq 2$) is given.
  The well known Liouville-Arnold theorem says that if a level surface of
integrals of an integrable system is compact and connected, then it is a torus.
However, in some important examples of integrable systems the topology of a
level surface of integrals is quite complicated. This is due to the fact that
in these examples the phase space has points where either the Hamiltonian is
singular or the symplectic form is singular or degenerate. In such situations
the Liouville-Arnold theorem does not apply. However, sometimes it is possible
to define the corresponding flow on the whole level surface of integrals and
use this flow to investigate the topology. Tomei (1982) and Fried (1986) used
the Toda lattice to study the topology of the isospectral variety of Jacobi
matrices. We recall these results and we also expose new results concerning the
topology of the isospectral variety of zero-diagonal Jacobi matrices. This
topology is studied using the Volterra system.
  We conjecture that the set of all Hilbert functions of (artinian) level
algebras enjoys a very natural form of regularity, which we call the {\em
Interval Conjecture} (IC): If, for some positive integer $\alpha $,
$(1,h_1,...,h_i,...,h_e)$ and $(1,h_1,...,h_i+\alpha ,...,h_e)$ are both level
$h$-vectors, then $(1,h_1,...,h_i+\beta ,...,h_e)$ is also level for each
integer $\beta =0,1,..., \alpha .$ In the Gorenstein case, i.e. when $h_e=1$,
we also supply the {\em Gorenstein Interval Conjecture} (GIC), which naturally
generalizes the IC, and basically states that the same property simultaneously
holds for any two symmetric entries, say $h_i$ and $h_{e-i}$, of a Gorenstein
$h$-vector.
  These conjectures are inspired by the research performed in this area over
the last few years. A series of recent results seems to indicate that it will
be nearly impossible to characterize explicitly the sets of all Gorenstein or
of all level Hilbert functions. Therefore, our conjectures would at least
provide the existence of a very strong - and natural - form of order in the
structure of such important and complicated sets.
  We are still far from proving the conjectures at this point. However, we will
already solve a few interesting cases, especially when it comes to the IC, in
this paper. Among them, that of Gorenstein $h$-vectors of socle degree 4, that
of level $h$-vectors of socle degree 2, and that of non-unimodal level
$h$-vectors of socle degree 3 and any given codimension.
  We establish a one-to-one correspondence between one-sided and two-sided
regular systems of conditional probabilities on the half-line that preserves
the associated chains and Gibbs measures. As an application, we determine
uniqueness and non-uniqueness regimes in one-sided versions of ferromagnetic
Ising models with long range interactions. Our study shows that the interplay
between chain and Gibbsian theories yields more information than that contained
within the known theory of each separate framework. In particular: (i) A
Gibbsian construction due to Dyson yields a new family of chains with phase
transitions; (ii) these transitions show that a square summability uniqueness
condition of chains is false in the general non-shift-invariant setting, and
(iii) an uniqueness criterion for chains shows that a Gibbsian conjecture due
to Kac and Thompson is false in this half-line setting.
  Let W -> X be a real smooth projective threefold fibred by rational curves.
Koll\'ar proved that if W(R) is orientable a connected component N of W(R) is
essentially either a Seifert fibred manifold or a connected sum of lens spaces.
Let k : = k(N) be the integer defined as follows: If g : N -> F is a Seifert
fibration, one defines k : = k(N) as the number of multiple fibres of g, while,
if N is a connected sum of lens spaces, k is defined as the number of lens
spaces different from P^3(R). Our Main Theorem says: If X is a geometrically
rational surface, then k <= 4. Moreover we show that if F is diffeomorphic to
S^1xS^1, then W(R) is connected and k = 0. These results answer in the
affirmative two questions of Koll\'ar who proved in 1999 that k <= 6 and
suggested that 4 would be the sharp bound. We derive the Theorem from a careful
study of real singular Del Pezzo surfaces with only Du Val singularities.
  We compute the restricted infinitesimal deformations of the restricted simple
Lie algebras over an algebraically closed field of characteristic different
from 2 and 3.
  Tseytlin has recently proposed that an action functional exists whose
gradient generates to all orders in perturbation theory the Renormalization
Group (RG) flow of the target space metric in the worldsheet sigma model. The
gradient is defined with respect to a metric on the space of coupling constants
which is explicitly known only to leading order in perturbation theory, but at
that order is positive semi-definite, as follows from Perelman's work on the
Ricci flow. This gives rise to a monotonicity formula for the flow which is
expected to fail only if the beta function perturbation series fails to
converge, which can happen if curvatures or their derivatives grow large. We
test the validity of the monotonicity formula at next-to-leading order in
perturbation theory by explicitly computing the second-order terms in the
metric on the space of coupling constants. At this order, this metric is found
not to be positive semi-definite. In situations where this might spoil
monotonicity, derivatives of curvature become large enough for higher order
perturbative corrections to be significant.
  We provide a sharp rate of convergence in the central limit theorem for
random vectors with an unconditional, log-concave density. The argument relies
on analysis of the Neumann laplacian on convex domains and on the theory of
optimal transportation of measures.
  Let $k$ be an algebraically closed field of characteristic 2, and let $W$ be
the ring of infinite Witt vectors over $k$. Suppose $D$ is a dihedral 2-group.
We prove that the universal deformation ring $R(D,V)$ of an endo-trivial
$kD$-module $V$ is always isomorphic to $W[\mathbb{Z}/2\times\mathbb{Z}/2]$. As
a consequence we obtain a similar result for modules $V$ with stable
endomorphism ring $k$ belonging to an arbitrary nilpotent block with defect
group $D$. This confirms for such $V$ conjectures on the ring structure of the
universal deformation ring of $V$ which had previously been shown for $V$
belonging to cyclic blocks or to blocks with Klein four defect groups.
  We consider divergence form elliptic operators of the form $L=-\dv
A(x)\nabla$, defined in $R^{n+1} = \{(x,t)\in R^n \times R \}$, $n \geq 2$,
where the $L^{\infty}$ coefficient matrix $A$ is $(n+1)\times(n+1)$, uniformly
elliptic, complex and $t$-independent. We show that for such operators,
boundedness and invertibility of the corresponding layer potential operators on
$L^2(\mathbb{R}^{n})=L^2(\partial\mathbb{R}_{+}^{n+1})$, is stable under
complex, $L^{\infty}$ perturbations of the coefficient matrix. Using a variant
of the $Tb$ Theorem, we also prove that the layer potentials are bounded and
invertible on $L^2(\mathbb{R}^n)$ whenever $A(x)$ is real and symmetric (and
thus, by our stability result, also when $A$ is complex, $\Vert
A-A^0\Vert_{\infty}$ is small enough and $A^0$ is real, symmetric, $L^{\infty}$
and elliptic). In particular, we establish solvability of the Dirichlet and
Neumann (and Regularity) problems, with $L^2$ (resp. $\dot{L}^2_1)$ data, for
small complex perturbations of a real symmetric matrix. Previously, $L^2$
solvability results for complex (or even real but non-symmetric) coefficients
were known to hold only for perturbations of constant matrices (and then only
for the Dirichlet problem), or in the special case that the coefficients
$A_{j,n+1}=0=A_{n+1,j}$, $1\leq j\leq n$, which corresponds to the Kato square
root problem.
  We consider divergence form elliptic operators $L=-\dv A(x)\nabla$, defined
in $\mathbb{R}^{n+1}=\{(x,t)\in\mathbb{R}^{n}\times\mathbb{R}\}, n \geq 2$,
where the $L^{\infty}$ coefficient matrix $A$ is $(n+1)\times(n+1)$, uniformly
elliptic, complex and $t$-independent. Using recently obtained results
concerning the boundedness and invertibility of layer potentials associated to
such operators, we show that if $Lu=0$ in $\mathbb{R}^{n+1}_+$, then for any
vector-valued ${\bf v} \in W^{1,2}_{loc},$ we have the bilinear estimate
$$|\iint_{\mathbb{R}^{n+1}_+} \nabla u \cdot \bar{{\bf v}} dx dt |\leq
C\sup_{t>0} \|u(\cdot,t)\|_{L^2(\mathbb{R}^n)}(\||t \nabla {\bf v}\|| +
\|N_*{\bf v}\|_{L^2(\mathbb{R}^n)}),$$ where $\||F\|| \equiv
(\iint_{\mathbb{R}^{n+1}_+} |F(x,t)|^2 t^{-1} dx dt)^{1/2},$ and where $N_*$ is
the usual non-tangential maximal operator. The result is new even in the case
of real symmetric coefficients, and generalizes the analogous result of
Dahlberg for harmonic functions on Lipschitz graph domains.
  We give a proof of a so-called "local $Tb$" Theorem for singular integrals
whose kernels satisfy the standard Calder\'on-Zygmund conditions. The present
theorem, which extends an earlier result of M. Christ \cite{Ch}, was proved in
\cite{AHMTT} for "perfect dyadic" Calder\'on-Zygmund operators. The proof in
\cite{AHMTT} essentially carries over to the case considered here, with some
technical adjustments.
  A hyperbolic 3-simplex reflection group is a Coxeter group arising as a
lattice in the isometry group of hyperbolic 3-space, with fundamental domain a
geodesic simplex (possibly with some ideal vertices). The classification of
these groups is known, and there are exactly 9 cocompact examples, and 23
non-cocompact examples. We provide a complete computation of the lower
algebraic K-theory of the integral group ring of all the hyperbolic 3-simplex
reflection groups.
  We prove a central limit theorem with aassumptions which are many weak than
classical conditions
  The main result of this paper is a quasi-hamiltonian analogue of a special
case of the O'Shea-Sjamaar convexity theorem for usual momentum maps. We denote
by U a simply connected compact connected Lie group and we fix an involutive
automorphism of maximal rank on this Lie group (such an automorphism always
exists). We then denote by M a quasi-hamiltonian U-space and we prove that the
image under the momentum map of the fixed-point set of a form-reversing
compatible involution of M is a convex polytope, which is in fact equal to the
full momentum polytope. This theorem was announced in arXiv:math/0609517v1. As
an application, we obtain an example of lagrangian subspace in representation
spaces of surface groups.
  The interest of quadratic algebras for position-dependent mass Schr\"odinger
equations is highlighted by constructing spectrum generating algebras for a
class of d-dimensional radial harmonic oscillators with $d \ge 2$ and a
specific mass choice depending on some positive parameter $\alpha$. Via some
minor changes, the one-dimensional oscillator on the line with the same kind of
mass is included in this class. The existence of a single unitary irreducible
representation belonging to the positive-discrete series type for $d \ge 2$ and
of two of them for d=1 is proved. The transition to the constant-mass limit
$\alpha \to 0$ is studied and deformed su(1,1) generators are constructed.
These operators are finally used to generate all the bound-state wavefunctions
by an algebraic procedure.
  We consider exact and quasi-exact solvability of the one-dimensional
Fokker-Planck equation based on the connection between the Fokker-Planck
equation and the Schr\"odinger equation. A unified consideration of these two
types of solvability is given from the viewpoint of prepotential together with
Bethe ansatz equations. Quasi-exactly solvable Fokker-Planck equations related
to the $sl(2)$-based systems in Turbiner's classification are listed. We also
present one $sl(2)$-based example which is not listed in Turbiner's scheme.
  The Dirac theory in the Euclidean Taub-NUT space gives rise to a large
collection of conserved operators associated to genuine or hidden symmetries.
They are involved in interesting algebraic structures as dynamical algebras or
even infinite-dimensional algebras or superalgebras. One presents here the
infinite-dimensional superalgebra specific to the Dirac theory in manifolds
carrying the Gross-Perry-Sorkin monopole. It is shown that there exists an
infinite-dimensional superalgebra that can be seen as a twisted loop
superalgebra.
  Random walks on expander graphs were thoroughly studied, with the important
motivation that, under some natural conditions, these walks mix quickly and
provide an efficient method of sampling the vertices of a graph. Alon,
Benjamini, Lubetzky and Sodin studied non-backtracking random walks on regular
graphs, and showed that their mixing rate may be up to twice as fast as that of
the simple random walk. As an application, they showed that the maximal number
of visits to a vertex, made by a non-backtracking random walk of length $n$ on
a high-girth $n$-vertex regular expander, is typically $(1+o(1))\frac{\log
n}{\log\log n}$, as in the case of the balls and bins experiment. They further
asked whether one can establish the precise distribution of the visits such a
walk makes.
  In this work, we answer the above question by combining a generalized form of
Brun's sieve with some extensions of the ideas in Alon et al. Let $N_t$ denote
the number of vertices visited precisely $t$ times by a non-backtracking random
walk of length $n$ on a regular $n$-vertex expander of fixed degree and girth
$g$. We prove that if $g=\omega(1)$, then for any fixed $t$, $N_t/n$ is
typically $\frac{1}{\mathrm{e}t!}+o(1)$. Furthermore, if $g=\Omega(\log\log
n)$, then $N_t/n$ is typically $\frac{1+o(1)}{\mathrm{e}t!}$ uniformly on all
$t \leq (1-o(1))\frac{\log n}{\log\log n}$ and 0 for all $t \geq
(1+o(1))\frac{\log n}{\log\log n}$. In particular, we obtain the above result
on the typical maximal number of visits to a single vertex, with an improved
threshold window. The essence of the proof lies in showing that variables
counting the number of visits to a set of sufficiently distant vertices are
asymptotically independent Poisson variables.
  We derive an explicit formula for the Witten-Reshetikhin-Turaev
SO(3)-invariants of lens spaces. We use the representation of the mapping class
group of the torus corresponding to the Witten-Reshetikhin-Turaev SO(3)-TQFT to
give such formula.
  The main result of this article is the fact that the currents defined by
Levin give a description of the polylogarithm of an abelian scheme at the
topological level. This result was a conjecture of Levin. This provides a
method to explicit the Eisenstein classes of an abelian scheme at the
topological level. These classes are of special interest since they have a
motivic origin by a theorem of Kings. In a forthcoming article, we use the main
result of this paper to prove that the Eisenstein classes of the universal
abelian scheme over an Hilbert-Blumenthal variety degenerate at the boundary of
the Baily-Borel compactification of the base in a special value of an
$L$-function associated to the underlying totally real number field. As a
corollary, we get a non vanishing result for some of these Eisenstein classes
in this geometric situation.
  We define the epsilon-distortion complexity of a set as the shortest program,
running on a universal Turing machine, which produces this set at the precision
epsilon in the sense of Hausdorff distance. Then, we estimate the
epsilon-distortion complexity of various central Cantor sets on the line
generated by iterated function systems (IFS's). In particular, the
epsilon-distortion complexity of a C^k Cantor set depends, in general, on k and
on its box counting dimension, contrarily to Cantor sets generated by
polynomial IFS or random affine Cantor sets.
  The conditions for proper definitions in mathematics are given, in terms of
the theory of definition, on the basis of the criterions of eliminability and
non-creativity. As a definition, Russell's antinomy is a violation of the
criterion of eliminability (Behmann, 1931; Bochvar, 1943). Following the path
of the criterion of non-creativity, this paper develops a new analysis of
Comprehension schema and, as a consequence, proof that Russell's antinomy
argumentation, despite the words of Frege himself, does not hold in
Grundgesetze der Arithmetik. According to Basic Law (III), the class of classes
not belonging to themselves is a class defined by a function which can not take
as argument its own course of value. In other words, the class of classes not
belonging to themselves is a class whose classes are not identical to the class
itself.
  We give restrictions on the existence of families of curves on smooth
projective surfaces $S$ of nonnegative Kodaira dimension all having constant
geometric genus $g \geq 2$ and hyperelliptic normalizations. In particular, we
prove a Reider-like result whose proof is ``vector bundle-free'' and relies on
deformation theory and bending-and-breaking of rational curves in $\Sym^2(S)$.
We also give examples of families of such curves.
  This note concerns uniform equicontinuity of families of operators on a
separable Hilbert space H, and of families of maps on B(H). It is shown that a
one parameter group of automorphisms is uniformly equicontinuous if and only if
the group of unitaries which implements it is so. A "geometrical" necessary and
sufficient condition is given for a family of operators to be uniformly
equicontinuous.
  In this paper, a game-theoretic model for studying power control for wireless
data networks in frequency-selective multipath environments is analyzed. The
uplink of an impulse-radio ultrawideband system is considered. The effects of
self-interference and multiple-access interference on the performance of Rake
receivers are investigated for synchronous systems. Focusing on energy
efficiency, a noncooperative game is proposed in which users in the network are
allowed to choose their transmit powers to maximize their own utilities, and
the Nash equilibrium for the proposed game is derived. It is shown that, due to
the frequency selective multipath, the noncooperative solution is achieved at
different signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratios, respectively of the channel
realization. A large-system analysis is performed to derive explicit
expressions for the achieved utilities. The Pareto-optimal (cooperative)
solution is also discussed and compared with the noncooperative approach.
  Let $g(x)$ be a fixed non-constant complex polynomial. It was conjectured by
Schinzel that if $g(h(x))$ has boundedly many terms, then $h(x)\in \C[x]$ must
also have boundedly many terms. Solving an older conjecture raised by R\'enyi
and by Erd\"os, Schinzel had proved this in the special cases $g(x)=x^d$;
however that method does not extend to the general case. Here we prove the full
Schinzel's conjecture (actually in sharper form) by a completely different
method. Simultaneously we establish an "algorithmic" parametric description of
the general decomposition $f(x)=g(h(x))$, where $f$ is a polynomial with a
given number of terms and $g,h$ are arbitrary polynomials. As a corollary, this
implies for instance that a polynomial with $l$ terms and given coefficients is
non-trivially decomposable if and only if the degree-vector lies in the union
of certain finitely many subgroups of $\Z^l$.
  We study the action of metaplectic operators on Wiener amalgam spaces, giving
upper bounds for their norms. As an application, we obtain new fixed-time
estimates in these spaces for Schr\"odinger equations with general quadratic
Hamiltonians and Strichartz estimates for the Schr\"odinger equation with
potentials $V(x)=\pm|x|^2$.
  This note gives two examples of surfaces with normal crossing singularities.
In the first example the canonical ring is not finitely generated. In the
second, the canonical line bundle is not ample but its pull back to the
normalization is ample. The latter answers in the negative a problem left
unresolved in [EGA,III.2.6.2] and raised again by Viehweg.
  In this paper we identify the ``nil-terms'' for Waldhausen's algebraic
K-theory of spaces functor as the reduced K-theory of a category of equivariant
spaces equipped with a homotopically nilpotent endomorphism.
  The distributed source coding problem is considered when the sensors, or
encoders, are under Byzantine attack; that is, an unknown number of sensors
have been reprogrammed by a malicious intruder to undermine the reconstruction
at the fusion center. Three different forms of the problem are considered. The
first is a variable-rate setup, in which the decoder adaptively chooses the
rates at which the sensors transmit. An explicit characterization of the
variable-rate minimum achievable sum rate is stated, given by the maximum
entropy over the set of distributions indistinguishable from the true source
distribution by the decoder. In addition, two forms of the fixed-rate problem
are considered, one with deterministic coding and one with randomized coding.
The achievable rate regions are given for both these problems, with a larger
region achievable using randomized coding, though both are suboptimal compared
to variable-rate coding.
  We present and analyse a Monte-Carlo algorithm to compute the minimal
polynomial of an $n\times n$ matrix over a finite field that requires $O(n^3)$
field operations and O(n) random vectors, and is well suited for successful
practical implementation. The algorithm, and its complexity analysis, use
standard algorithms for polynomial and matrix operations. We compare features
of the algorithm with several other algorithms in the literature. In addition
we present a deterministic verification procedure which is similarly efficient
in most cases but has a worst-case complexity of $O(n^4)$. Finally, we report
the results of practical experiments with an implementation of our algorithms
in comparison with the current algorithms in the {\sf GAP} library.
  This paper studies the performance of a wireless data network using
energy-efficient power control techniques when different multiple access
schemes, namely direct-sequence code division multiple access (DS-CDMA) and
impulse-radio ultrawideband (IR-UWB), are considered. Due to the large
bandwidth of the system, the multipath channel is assumed to be
frequency-selective. By making use of noncooperative game-theoretic models and
large-system analysis tools, explicit expressions for the achieved utilities at
the Nash equilibrium are derived in terms of the network parameters. A measure
of the loss of DS-CDMA with respect to IR-UWB is proposed, which proves
substantial equivalence between the two schemes. Simulation results are
provided to validate the analysis.
  A set of vertices $S$ \emph{resolves} a connected graph $G$ if every vertex
is uniquely determined by its vector of distances to the vertices in $S$. The
\emph{metric dimension} of $G$ is the minimum cardinality of a resolving set of
$G$. Let $\mathcal{G}_{\beta,D}$ be the set of graphs with metric dimension
$\beta$ and diameter $D$. It is well-known that the minimum order of a graph in
$\mathcal{G}_{\beta,D}$ is exactly $\beta+D$. The first contribution of this
paper is to characterise the graphs in $\mathcal{G}_{\beta,D}$ with order
$\beta+D$ for all values of $\beta$ and $D$. Such a characterisation was
previously only known for $D\leq2$ or $\beta\leq1$. The second contribution is
to determine the maximum order of a graph in $\mathcal{G}_{\beta,D}$ for all
values of $D$ and $\beta$. Only a weak upper bound was previously known.
  For each simply-laced Dynkin graph $\Delta$ we realize the simple complex Lie
algebra of type $\Delta$ as a quotient algebra of the complex degenerate
composition Lie algebra $L(A)_{1}^{\mathbb{C}}$ of a domestic canonical algebra
$A$ of type $\Delta$ by some ideal $I$ of $L(A)_{1}^{\mathbb{C}}$ that is
defined via the Hall algebra of $A$, and give an explicit form of $I$.
Moreover, we show that each root space of $L(A)_{1}^{\mathbb{C}}/I$ has a basis
given by the coset of an indecomposable $A$-module $M$ with root easily
computed by the dimension vector of $M$.
  By using only combinatorial data on two posets X and Y, we construct a set of
so-called formulas. A formula produces simultaneously, for any abelian category
A, a functor between the categories of complexes of diagrams over X and Y with
values in A. This functor induces a triangulated functor between the
corresponding derived categories.
  This allows us to prove, for pairs X, Y of posets sharing certain common
underlying combinatorial structure, that for any abelian category A, regardless
of its nature, the categories of diagrams over X and Y with values in A are
derived equivalent.
  In this paper we show that, under certain generic conditions, billiards on
ovals have only a finite number of periodic orbits, for each period, all
non-degenerate and at least one of them is hyperbolic. Moreover, the invariant
curves of two hyperbolic points are transversal. We explore these properties to
give some dynamical consequences specially about the dynamics in the
instability regions.
  We characterize the image of the period map for cubic fourfolds with at worst
simple singularities as the complement of an arrangement of hyperplanes in the
period space. It follows then that the GIT compactification of the moduli space
of cubic fourfolds is isomorphic to the Looijenga's compactification associated
to this arrangement. This work builds on and is a natural continuation of our
previous paper on the GIT compactification of the moduli space of cubic
fourfolds.
  We study the contraction semigroups of elliptic quadratic differential
operators. Elliptic quadratic differential operators are the non-selfadjoint
operators defined in the Weyl quantization by complex-valued elliptic quadratic
symbols. We establish in this paper that under the assumption of ellipticity,
as soon as the real part of their Weyl symbols is a non-zero non-positive
quadratic form, the norm of contraction semigroups generated by these operators
decays exponentially in time.
  The period map for cubic fourfolds takes values in a locally symmetric
variety of orthogonal type of dimension 20. We determine the image of this
period map (thus confirming a conjecture of Hassett) and give at the same time
a new proof of the theorem of Voisin that asserts that this period map is an
open embedding. An algebraic version of our main result is an identification of
the algebra of SL(6)-invariant polynomials on the space of cubic forms in 6
complex variables with a certain algebra of meromorphic automorphic forms on a
symmetric domain of orthogonal type of dimension 20. We also describe the
stratification of the moduli space of semistable cubic fourfolds in terms of a
Dynkin-Vinberg diagram.
  We compute expectation values of mixed traces containing both matrices in a
two matrix model, i.e. generating function for counting bicolored discrete
surfaces with non uniform boundary conditions. As an application, we prove the
$x-y$ symmetry of the algebraic curve invariants introduced in math-ph/0702045.
  We study infinite tree and ultrametric matrices, and their action on the
boundary of the tree. For each tree matrix we show the existence of a symmetric
random walk associated to it and we study its Green potential. We provide a
representation theorem for harmonic functions that includes simple expressions
for any increasing harmonic function and the Martin kernel. In the boundary, we
construct the Markov kernel whose Green function is the extension of the matrix
and we simulate it by using a cascade of killing independent exponential random
variables and conditionally independent uniform variables. For ultrametric
matrices we supply probabilistic conditions to study its potential properties
when immersed in its minimal tree matrix extension.
  Let $\mathfrak{T}$ denote the full Toeplitz algebra on the Bergman space of
the unit ball $\mathbb{B}_n.$ For each subset $G$ of $L^{\infty},$ let
$\mathfrak{CI}(G)$ denote the closed two-sided ideal of $\mathfrak{T}$
generated by all $T_fT_g-T_gT_f$ with $f,g\in G.$ It is known that
$\mathfrak{CI}(C(\bar{\mathbb{B}}_n))=\mathcal{K}$ - the ideal of compact
operators and $\mathfrak{CI}(C(\mathbb{B}_n))=\mathfrak{T}.$ Despite these
``extremal cases'', $\mathfrak{T}$ does contain other non-trivial ideals. This
paper gives a construction of a class of subsets $G$ of $L^{\infty}$ so that
$\mathcal{K}\subsetneq\mathfrak{CI}(G)\subsetneq\mathfrak{T}.$
  We generalize an inequality for mixed Monge-Amp\`ere measures. We also give
an example that shows that our assumptions are sharp. The corresponding result
in the setting of compact K\"ahler manifold is also discussed.
  We give an alternative, combinatorial/geometrical evaluation of a class of
improper sinc integrals studied by the Borweins. A probabilistic interpretation
is also noted and used to shed light on a related combinatorial identity.
  The ensemble $\CUE^{(q)}$ of truncated random unitary matrices is a
deformation of the usual Circular Unitary Ensemble depending on a discrete
non-negative parameter $q.$ $\CUE^{(q)}$ is an exactly solved model of random
contraction matrices originally introduced in the context of scattering theory.
In this article, we exhibit a connection between $\CUE^{(q)}$ and Fisher's
random-turns vicious walker model from statistical mechanics. In particular, we
show that the moment generating function of the trace of a random matrix from
$\CUE^{(q)}$ is a generating series for the partition function of Fisher's
model, when the walkers are assumed to represent mutually attracting particles.
  We show that a left invariant metric on a compact Lie group $G$ which is
obtained by stretching a biinvariant metric in the direction of a subalgebra
$\h$ of $\g$ always has some negative sectional curvature, unless the
semi-simple part of $\h$ is an ideal of $\g$.
  A pure state f of a von Neumann algebra M is called classically normal if f
is normal on any von Neumann subalgebra of M on which f is multiplicative.
Assuming the continuum hypothesis, a separably represented von Neumann algebra
M has classically normal, singular pure states iff there is a central
projection p in M such that Mp is a factor of type I_\infty, II, or III.
  We define the alternating sign matrix polytope as the convex hull of nxn
alternating sign matrices and prove its equivalent description in terms of
inequalities. This is analogous to the well known result of Birkhoff and von
Neumann that the convex hull of the permutation matrices equals the set of all
nonnegative doubly stochastic matrices. We count the facets and vertices of the
alternating sign matrix polytope and describe its projection to the
permutohedron as well as give a complete characterization of its face lattice
in terms of modified square ice configurations. Furthermore we prove that the
dimension of any face can be easily determined from this characterization.
  In this paper the benefits provided by multi-cell processing of signals
transmitted by mobile terminals which are received via dedicated relay
terminals (RTs) are assessed. Unlike previous works, each RT is assumed here to
be capable of full-duplex operation and receives the transmission of adjacent
relay terminals. Focusing on intra-cell TDMA and non-fading channels, a
simplified uplink cellular model introduced by Wyner is considered. This
framework facilitates analytical derivation of the per-cell sum-rate of
multi-cell and conventional single-cell receivers. In particular, the analysis
is based on the observation that the signal received at the base stations can
be interpreted as the outcome of a two-dimensional linear time invariant
system. Numerical results are provided as well in order to provide further
insight into the performance benefits of multi-cell processing with relaying.
  For the classical Euler's elastic problem, conjugate points are described.
Inflectional elasticae admit the first conjugate point between the first and
the third inflection points. All the rest elasticae do not have conjugate
points.
  A Riemannian metric on a manifold M induces a family of Riemannian metrics on
the loop space LM depending on a Sobolev space parameter s. The connection and
curvature forms of these metrics take values in pseudodifferential operators.
We develop a theory of Wodzicki-Chern-Simons classes using the s=0, 1
connections and the Wodzicki residue. These classes distinguish the smooth
homotopy type of some circle actions on M = S^2 x S^3, and imply that the
fundamental group of Diff(M) is infinite.
  The goal of this paper is to compute the rational Chow ring of the stack
consisting of nodal curves of genus 0 with at most 3 nodes: it is a Q-algebra
with 10 generators and 11 relations.
  We introduce a method that generates invariant functions from perturbative
classical field theories depending on external parameters. Applying our methods
to several field theories such as abelian BF, Chern-Simons and 2-dimensional
Yang-Mills theory, we obtain, respectively, the linking number for embedded
submanifolds in compact varieties, the Gauss' and the second Milnor's invariant
for links in S^3, and invariants under area-preserving diffeomorphisms for
configurations of immersed planar curves.
  We define angles from-to and between infinite dimensional subspaces of a
Hilbert space, inspired by the work of E. J. Hannan, 1961/1962 for general
canonical correlations of stochastic processes. The spectral theory of
selfadjoint operators is used to investigate the properties of the angles,
e.g., to establish connections between the angles corresponding to orthogonal
complements. The classical gaps and angles of Dixmier and Friedrichs are
characterized in terms of the angles. We introduce principal invariant
subspaces and prove that they are connected by an isometry that appears in the
polar decomposition of the product of corresponding orthogonal projectors.
Point angles are defined by analogy with the point operator spectrum. We bound
the Hausdorff distance between the sets of the squared cosines of the angles
corresponding to the original subspaces and their perturbations. We show that
the squared cosines of the angles from one subspace to another can be
interpreted as Ritz values in the Rayleigh-Ritz method, where the former
subspace serves as a trial subspace and the orthogonal projector of the latter
subspace serves as an operator in the Rayleigh-Ritz method. The Hausdorff
distance between the Ritz values, corresponding to different trial subspaces,
is shown to be bounded by a constant times the gap between the trial subspaces.
We prove a similar eigenvalue perturbation bound that involves the gap squared.
Finally, we consider the classical alternating projectors method and propose
its ultimate acceleration, using the conjugate gradient approach. The
corresponding convergence rate estimate is obtained in terms of the angles. We
illustrate a possible acceleration for the domain decomposition method with a
small overlap for the 1D diffusion equation.
  In this paper, we prove the existence and uniqueness result of the reflected
BSDE with two continuous barriers under monotonicity and general increasing
condition on $y$, with Lipschitz condition on $z$.
  We propose a variant of the Chvatal-Gomory procedure that will produce a
sufficient set of facet normals for the integer hulls of all polyhedra {xx : Ax
<= b} as b varies. The number of steps needed is called the small Chvatal rank
(SCR) of A. We characterize matrices for which SCR is zero via the notion of
supernormality which generalizes unimodularity. SCR is studied in the context
of the stable set problem in a graph, and we show that many of the well-known
facet normals of the stable set polytope appear in at most two rounds of our
procedure. Our results reveal a uniform hypercyclic structure behind the
normals of many complicated facet inequalities in the literature for the stable
set polytope. Lower bounds for SCR are derived both in general and for
polytopes in the unit cube.
  We describe the equivariant Chow ring of the wonderful compactification $X$
of a symmetric space of minimal rank, via restriction to the associated toric
variety $Y$. Also, we show that the restrictions to $Y$ of the tangent bundle
$T_X$ and its logarithmic analogue $S_X$ decompose into a direct sum of line
bundles. This yields closed formulae for the equivariant Chern classes of $T_X$
and $S_X$, and, in turn, for the Chern classes of reductive groups considered
by Kiritchenko.
  We describe the geometric and dynamical properties of expansive Markov
systems.
  We provide examples of non-locally compact geodesic Ptolemy metric spaces
which are not uniquely geodesic. On the other hand, we show that locally
compact, geodesic Ptolemy metric spaces are uniquely geodesic. Moreover, we
prove that a metric space is CAT(0) if and only if it is Busemann convex and
Ptolemy.
  We give a new proof of universality properties in the bulk of spectrum of the
hermitian matrix models, assuming that the potential that determines the model
is globally $C^{2}$ and locally $C^{3}$ function (see Theorem \ref{t:U.t1}).
The proof as our previous proof in \cite{Pa-Sh:97} is based on the orthogonal
polynomial techniques but does not use asymptotics of orthogonal polynomials.
Rather, we obtain the $sin$-kernel as a unique solution of a certain non-linear
integro-differential equation that follows from the determinant formulas for
the correlation functions of the model. We also give a simplified and
strengthened version of paper \cite{BPS:95} on the existence and properties of
the limiting Normalized Counting Measure of eigenvalues. We use these results
in the proof of universality and we believe that they are of independent
interest.
  We introduce a class of group endomorphisms -- those of finite combinatorial
rank -- exhibiting slow orbit growth. An associated Dirichlet series is used to
obtain an exact orbit counting formula, and in the connected case this series
is shown to have a closed rational form. Analytic properties of the Dirichlet
series are related to orbit-growth asymptotics: depending on the location of
the abscissa of convergence and the degree of the pole there, various
orbit-growth asymptotics are found, all of which are polynomially bounded.
  We obtain Drinfeld second realization of the quantum affine superalgebras
associated with the affine Lie superalgebra $D^{(1)}(2,1;x)$. Our results are
analogous to those obtained by Beck for the quantum affine algebras. Beck's
analysis uses heavily the (extended) affine Weyl groups of the affine Lie
algebras. In our approach the structures are based on a Weyl groupoid.
  We consider the restriction of interval exchange transformations to algebraic
number fields, which leads to maps on lattices. We characterize
renormalizability arithmetically, and study its relationships with a
geometrical quantity that we call the drift vector. We exhibit some examples of
renormalizable interval exchange maps with zero and non-zero drift vector, and
carry out some investigations of their properties. In particular, we look for
evidence of the finite decomposition property: each lattice is the union of
finitely many orbits.
  We study the interplay between noncommutative tori and noncommutative
elliptic curves through a category of equivariant differential modules on
$\mathbb{C}^*$. We functorially relate this category to the category of
holomorphic vector bundles on noncommutative tori as introduced by Polishchuk
and Schwarz and study the induced map between the corresponding K-theories. In
addition, there is a forgetful functor to the category of noncommutative
elliptic curves of Soibelman and Vologodsky, as well as a forgetful functor to
the category of vector bundles on $\mathbb{C}^*$ with regular singular
connections.
  The category that we consider has the nice property of being a Tannakian
category, hence it is equivalent to the category of representations of an
affine group scheme. Via an equivariant version of the Riemann-Hilbert
correspondence we determine this group scheme to be (the algebraic hull of)
$\mathbb{Z}^2$. We also obtain a full subcategory of the category of
holomorphic bundles of the noncommutative torus, which is equivalent to the
category of representations of $\mathbb{Z}$. This group is the proposed
topological fundamental group of the noncommutative torus (understood as a
degenerate elliptic curve) and we study Nori's notion of \'etale fundamental
group in this context.
  We first analyze the integrated density of states (IDS) of periodic
  Schr\"odinger operators on an amenable covering manifold. A criterion for the
continuity of the IDS at a prescribed energy is given along with examples of
operators with both continuous and discontinuous IDS'. Subsequently, alloy-type
perturbations of the periodic operator are considered. The randomness may enter
both via the potential and the metric. A Wegner estimate is proven which
implies the continuity of the corresponding IDS. This gives an example of a
discontinuous "periodic" IDS which is regularized by a random perturbation.
  The h^*-polynomial of a lattice polytope is the numerator of the generating
function of the Ehrhart polynomial. Let P be a lattice polytope with
h^*-polynomial of degree d and with linear coefficient h^*_1. We show that P
has to be a lattice pyramid over a lower-dimensional lattice polytope, if the
dimension of P is greater or equal to h^*_1 (2d+1) + 4d-1. This result has a
purely combinatorial proof and generalizes a recent theorem of Batyrev.
  We derive a new expression for the q-analogue of the Young symmetrizer which
generate irreducible representations of the Hecke algebra. We obtain this new
expression using Cherednik's fusion procedure. However, instead of splitting
Young diagrams into their rows or columns, we consider their principal hooks.
This minimises the number of auxiliary parameters needed in the fusion
procedure.
  In this paper we prove novel lower bounds for the Ginzburg-Landau energy with
or without magnetic field. These bounds rely on an improvement of the "vortex
balls construction" estimates by extracting a new positive term in the energy
lower bounds. This extra term can be conveniently estimated through a Lorentz
space norm, on which it thus provides an upper bound. The Lorentz space
$L^{2,\infty}$ we use is critical with respect to the expected vortex profiles
and can serve to estimate the total number of vortices and get improved
convergence results.
  We use geometric methods to calculate a formula for the complex
Monge-Amp\`ere measure $(dd^cV_K)^n$, for $K \Subset \RR^n \subset \CC^n$ a
convex body and $V_K$ its Siciak-Zaharjuta extremal function. Bedford and
Taylor had computed this for symmetric convex bodies $K$. We apply this to show
that two methods for deriving Bernstein-Markov-type inequalities, i.e.,
pointwise estimates of gradients of polynomials, yield the same results for all
convex bodies. A key role is played by the geometric result that the extremal
inscribed ellipses appearing in approximation theory are the maximal area
ellipses determining the complex Monge-Amp\`ere solution $V_K$.
  A quick overview is provided on the current development of the WP metric
geometry.
  Compact pseudo-Riemannian manifolds that have parallel Weyl tensor without
being conformally flat or locally symmetric are known to exist in infinitely
many dimensions greater than 4. We prove some general topological properties of
such manifolds, namely, vanishing of the Euler characteristic and real
Pontryagin classes, and infiniteness of the fundamental group. We also show
that, in the Lorentzian case, each of them is at least 5-dimensional and admits
a two-fold cover which is a bundle over the circle.
  Starting from the full many body Hamiltonian we derive the leading order
energy and density asymptotics for the ground state of a dilute, rotating Bose
gas in an anharmonic trap in the ` Thomas Fermi' (TF) limit when the
Gross-Pitaevskii coupling parameter and/or the rotation velocity tend to
infinity. Although the many-body wave function is expected to have a
complicated phase, the leading order contribution to the energy can be computed
by minimizing a simple functional of the density alone.
  We prove that the maximal number of limit cycles which bifurcate from an open
period annulus under a given multi-parameter analytic deformation of a given
analytic vector field is the same as in an appropriate one-parameter analytic
deformation of the field, provided that this cyclicity is finite. Along the
same lines we give also a bound of the cyclicity of homoclinic saddle loops.
  In this paper we continue the study of Lorentz space estimates for the
Ginzburg-Landau energy started in our previous paper, \cite{p1}. We focus on
getting estimates for the Ginzburg-Landau energy with external magnetic field
$h_{ex}$ in certain interesting regimes of $h_{ex}$. This allows us to show
that for configurations close to minimizers or local minimizers of the energy,
the vorticity mass of the configuration $(u,A)$ is comparable to the
$L^{2,\infty}$ Lorentz space norm of $\nabla_A u$. We also establish
convergence of the gauge-invariant Jacobians (vorticity measures) in the dual
of a function space defined in terms of Lorentz spaces.
  Higher cluster categories were recently introduced as a generalization of
cluster categories.
  This paper shows that in Dynkin types A and D, half of all higher cluster
categories are actually just quotients of cluster categories. The other half
can be obtained as quotients of 2-cluster categories, the "lowest" type of
higher cluster categories.
  Hence, in Dynkin types A and D, all higher cluster phenomena are implicit in
cluster categories and 2-cluster categories. In contrast, the same is not true
in Dynkin type E.
  The Positive Mass Theorem states that a complete asymptotically flat manifold
of nonnegative scalar curvature has nonnegative mass. The Riemannian Penrose
inequality provides a sharp lower bound for the mass when black holes are
present. More precisely, this lower bound is given in terms of the area of an
outermost minimal surface, and equality is achieved only for Schwarzschild
metrics. The Riemannian Penrose inequality was first proved in three dimensions
in 1997 by G. Huisken and T. Ilmanen for the case of a single black hole. In
1999, H. Bray extended this result to the general case of multiple black holes
using a different technique. In this paper we extend Bray's technique to
dimensions less than 8.
  We investigate the action of local unitary operations on multimode (pure or
mixed) Gaussian states and single out the minimal number of locally invariant
parametres which completely characterise the covariance matrix of such states.
For pure Gaussian states, central resources for continuous-variable quantum
information, we investigate separately the parametre reduction due to the
additional constraint of global purity, and the one following by the
local-unitary freedom. Counting arguments and insights from the phase-space
Schmidt decomposition and in general from the framework of symplectic analysis,
accompany our description of the standard form of pure n-mode Gaussian states.
In particular we clarify why only in pure states with n<=3 modes all the direct
correlations between position and momentum operators can be set to zero by
local unitary operations. For any n, the emerging minimal set of parametres
contains complete information about all forms of entanglement in the
corresponding states. An efficient state engineering scheme (able to encode
direct correlations between position and momentum operators as well) is
proposed to produce entangled multimode Gaussian resources, its number of
optical elements matching the minimal number of locally invariant degrees of
freedom of general pure n-mode Gaussian states. We demonstrate that so-called
"block-diagonal" Gaussian states, without direct correlations between position
and momentum, are systematically less entangled, on average, than arbitrary
pure Gaussian states.
  This paper is intended to provide an introduction to the theory of
substitution tilings. For our purposes, tiling substitution rules are divided
into two broad classes: geometric and combinatorial. Geometric substitution
tilings include self-similar tilings such as the well-known Penrose tilings;
for this class there is a substantial body of research in the literature.
Combinatorial substitutions are just beginning to be examined, and some of what
we present here is new. We give numerous examples, mention selected major
results, discuss connections between the two classes of substitutions, include
current research perspectives and questions, and provide an extensive
bibliography. Although the author attempts to fairly represent the as a whole,
the paper is not an exhaustive survey, and she apologizes for any important
omissions.
  Harer, Kas and Kirby have conjectured that every handle decomposition of the
elliptic surface $E(1)_{2,3}$ requires both 1- and 3-handles. In this article,
we construct a smooth 4-manifold which has the same Seiberg-Witten invariant as
$E(1)_{2,3}$ and admits neither 1- nor 3-handles, by using rational blow-downs
and Kirby calculus. Our manifold gives the first example of either a
counterexample to the Harer-Kas-Kirby conjecture or a homeomorphic but
non-diffeomorphic pair of simply connected closed smooth 4-manifolds with the
same non-vanishing Seiberg-Witten invariants.
  In this paper, achievable rates of imperfectly-known fading relay channels
are studied. It is assumed that communication starts with the network training
phase in which the receivers estimate the fading coefficients of their
respective channels. In the data transmission phase, amplify-and-forward and
decode-and-forward relaying schemes are considered, and the corresponding
achievable rate expressions are obtained. The achievable rate expressions are
then employed to identify the optimal resource allocation strategies.
  We study the Hochschild and cyclic homologies of noncommutative monogenic
extensions. As an aplication we compute the Hochschild and cyclic homologies of
the rank~1 Hopf algebras introduced by L. Krop and D. Radford in [Finite
dimensional Hopf algebras of rank 1 in characteristic 0, Journal of Algebra
302, no. 1, 214-230} (2006)].
  In previous work, an ordering result was given for the symbolwise probability
of error using general Markov channels, under iterative decoding of LDPC codes.
In this paper, the ordering result is extended to mutual information, under the
assumption of an iid input distribution. For certain channels, in which the
capacity-achieving input distribution is iid, this allows ordering of the
channels by capacity. The complexity of analyzing general Markov channels is
mitigated by this ordering, since it is possible to immediately determine that
a wide class of channels, with different numbers of states, has a smaller
mutual information than a given channel.
  We consider simple cusp algebras, that is certain subalgebras of the algebra
of holomorphic functions on a disk that are annihilated by some distributions
living on a singleton. We determine when these algebras can be holized in two
dimensions, and when these holizations are globally biholomorphic.
  We derive some consequences of very recent results of Cordero and Nicola on
the metaplectic representation, the Wiener amalgam spaces, (whose definition is
due to Feichtinger), and their applications to the regularity of the solutions
of Schroedinger equation with quadratic Weyl symbol. We do not however discuss
the validity of Cordero and Nicola's claims.
  Given a finite residue field
  $k$, one looks for a smoothness basis that is invariant under the
automorphism group of $k$. We construct models for some finite fields that
admit such a basis. This work aims at accelerating algorithms for computing
discrete logarithms in some finite residue fields.
  The group Hameo (M,\omega) of Hamiltonian homeomorphisms of a connected
symplectic manifold (M,\omega) was defined and studied in [7] and further in
[6]. In these papers, the authors consistently used the L^{(1,\infty)}-Hofer
norm (and not the L^\infty-Hofer norm) on the space of Hamiltonian paths (see
below for the definitions). A justification for this choice was given in [7].
In this article we study the L^\infty-case. In view of the fact that the Hofer
norm on the group Ham (M,\omega) of Hamiltonian diffeomorphisms does not depend
on the choice of the L^{(1,\infty)}-norm vs. the L^\infty-norm [9], Y.-G. Oh
and D. McDuff (private communications) asked whether the two notions of
Hamiltonian homeomorphisms arising from the different norms coincide. We will
give an affirmative answer to this question in this paper.
  We prove that all of the pure states of the reduced C*-algebra of the free
goup on $\aleph_1$ generators are *-automorphism equivalent and extract some
consequences of that fact.
  In wireless data networks, communication is particularly susceptible to
eavesdropping due to its broadcast nature. Security and privacy systems have
become critical for wireless providers and enterprise networks. This paper
considers the problem of secret communication over the Gaussian broadcast
channel, where a multi-antenna transmitter sends independent confidential
messages to two users with perfect secrecy. That is, each user would like to
obtain its own message reliably and confidentially. First, a computable
Sato-type outer bound on the secrecy capacity region is provided for a
multi-antenna broadcast channel with confidential messages. Next, a dirty-paper
secure coding scheme and its simplified version are described. For each case,
the corresponding achievable rate region is derived under the perfect secrecy
requirement. Finally, two numerical examples demonstrate that the Sato-type
outer bound is consistent with the boundary of the simplified dirty-paper
coding secrecy rate region.
  We define mosaics, which are naturally in bijection with Knutson-Tao puzzles.
We define an operation on mosaics, which shows they are also in bijection with
Littlewood-Richardson skew-tableaux. Another consequence of this construction
is that we obtain bijective proofs of commutativity and associativity for the
ring structures defined either of these objects. In particular, we obtain a
new, easy proof of the Littlewood-Richardson rule. Finally we discuss how our
operation is related to other known constructions, particularly jeu de taquin.
  Convexity/concavity properties of symbol error rates (SER) of the maximum
likelihood detector operating in the AWGN channel (non-fading and fading) are
studied. Generic conditions are identified under which the SER is a
convex/concave function of the SNR. Universal bounds for the SER 1st and 2nd
derivatives are obtained, which hold for arbitrary constellations and are tight
for some of them. Applications of the results are discussed, which include
optimum power allocation in spatial multiplexing systems, optimum power/time
sharing to decrease or increase (jamming problem) error rate, and implication
for fading channels.
  We treat a relative version of the main theorem in my previous paper: A
transcendental approach to Koll\'ar's injectivity theorem. More explicitly, we
give a curvature condition that implies Koll\'ar type cohomology injectivity
theorems in the relative setting. To carry out this generalization, we use the
Ohsawa-Takegoshi twisted version of Nakano's identity.
  Let g denote a Lie algebra over a field of characteristic zero, and let T(g)
denote the tensor product of g with a ring of truncated polynomials. The Lie
algebra T(g) is called a truncated current Lie algebra, or in the special case
when g is finite-dimensional and semisimple, a generalized Takiff algebra. In
this paper a highest-weight theory for T(g) is developed when the underlying
Lie algebra g possesses a triangular decomposition. The principal result is the
reducibility criterion for the Verma modules of T(g) for a wide class of Lie
algebras g, including the symmetrizable Kac-Moody Lie algebras, the Heisenberg
algebra, and the Virasoro algebra. This is achieved through a study of the
Shapovalov form.
  We continue our study of F-thresholds begun in math/0607660 by an in depth
analysis of the hypersurface case. We use the D--module theoretic description
of generalized test ideals which allows us to show that in any F--finite
regular ring the F-thresholds of hypersurfaces are discrete and rational (in
math/0607660 the finite type over a field case was shown for arbitrary ideals).
Furthermore we show that any limit of F-pure thresholds of principal ideals in
bouneded dimension is again an F-pure-threshold, hence in particular the limit
is rational. The study of the set of F-pure-thresholds leads to natural analogs
of conjectures of Shokurov and Koll\'{a}r (for log canonical thresholds) in the
case of F-pure-thresholds.
  This note is a correction of (statement and proof of) proposition 3.3.1 of
Toby Gee's preprint intitled *On the weights of mod p Hilbert modular forms*.
The aim is to compare Galois representations arising from extensions of some
group schemes (over the ring of integers of a p-adic field) endowed with a
descent data, and extensions of some crystalline representations with given
Hodge-Tate weights. The main tool of the proof is the theory of Breuil.
  Ulam asked for the maximum number of questions required to determine an
integer between one and one million by asking questions whose answer is `Yes'
or `No' and where one untruthful answer is allowed. Pelc showed that the number
of questions required is 25. Here we give a simple proof of this result.
  Linear statistics of eigenvalues in many familiar classes of random matrices
are known to obey gaussian central limit theorems. The proofs of such results
are usually rather difficult, involving hard computations specific to the model
in question. In this article we attempt to formulate a unified technique for
deriving such results via relatively soft arguments. In the process, we
introduce a notion of `second order Poincar\'e inequalities': just as ordinary
Poincar\'e inequalities give variance bounds, second order Poincar\'e
inequalities give central limit theorems. The proof of the main result employs
Stein's method of normal approximation. A number of examples are worked out,
some of which are new. One of the new results is a CLT for the spectrum of
gaussian Toeplitz matrices.
  A cognitive radio can operate as a secondary system in a given spectrum. This
operation should use limited power in order not to disturb the communication by
primary spectrum user. Under such conditions, in this paper we investigate how
to maximize the spectral efficiency in the secondary system. A secondary
receiver observes a multiple access channel of two users, the secondary and the
primary transmitter, respectively. We show that, for spectrally-efficient
operation, the secondary system should apply Opportunistic Interference
Cancellation (OIC). With OIC, the secondary system decodes the primary signal
when such an opportunity is created by the primary rate and the power received
from the primary system. For such an operation, we derive the achievable data
rate in the secondary system. When the primary signal is decodable, we devise a
method, based on superposition coding, by which the secondary system can
achieve the maximal possible rate. Finally, we investigate the power allocation
in the secondary system when multiple channels are used. We show that the
optimal power allocation with OIC can be achieved through intercepted
water-filling instead of the conventional water-filling. The results show a
significant gain for the rate achieved through an opportunistic interference
cancellation.
  The purpose of this paper is to study the problem of estimating a compactly
supported density of probability from noisy observations of its moments. In
fact, we provide a statistical approach to the famous Hausdorff classical
moment problem. We prove an upper bound and a lower bound on the rate of
convergence of the mean squared error showing that the considered estimator
attains minimax rate over the corresponding smoothness classes.
  I exemplify part of my recent work on the upper halfplane.
  We construct a microlocalization of the rational Cherednik algebras $H$ of
type $S_n$. This is achieved by a quantization of the Hilbert scheme
$\Hilb^n\C^2$ of $n$ points in $\C^2$. We then prove the equivalence of the
category of $H$-modules and the one of modules over its microlocalization under
certain conditions on the parameter.
  Over a Noetherian, local ring R of prime characteristic p, the Frobenius
functor F induces a diagonalizable map on certain quotients of rational
Grothendieck groups. This leads to an explicit formula for the Dutta
multiplicity, and it is shown that a weaker version of Serre's vanishing
conjecture holds if only chi(F(X)) = p^{dim R}chi(X) for all bounded complexes
X of finitely generated, projective modules with finite length homology.
  Let R be a commutative, noetherian, local ring. Topological Q-vector spaces
modelled on full subcategories of the derived category of R are constructed in
order to study intersection multiplicities.
  We deal with the following eigenvalue optimization problem: Given a bounded
domain $D\subset \R^2$, how to place an obstacle $B$ of fixed shape within $D$
so as to maximize or minimize the fundamental eigenvalue $\lambda_1$ of the
Dirichlet Laplacian on $D\setminus B$. This means that we want to extremize the
function $\rho\mapsto \lambda_1(D\setminus \rho (B))$, where $\rho$ runs over
the set of rigid motions such that $\rho (B)\subset D$. We answer this problem
in the case where both $D$ and $B$ are invariant under the action of a dihedral
group $\mathbb{D}_n$, $n\ge2$, and where the distance from the origin to the
boundary is monotonous as a function of the argument between two axes of
symmetry. The extremal configurations correspond to the cases where the axes of
symmetry of $B$ coincide with those of $D$.
  For any bounded regular domain $\Omega$ of a real analytic Riemannian
manifold $M$, we denote by $\lambda_{k}(\Omega)$ the $k$-th eigenvalue of the
Dirichlet Laplacian of $\Omega$. In this paper, we consider $\lambda_k$ and as
a functional upon the set of domains of fixed volume in $M$. We introduce and
investigate a natural notion of critical domain for this functional. In
particular, we obtain necessary and sufficient conditions for a domain to be
critical, locally minimizing or locally maximizing for $\lambda_k$. These
results rely on Hadamard type variational formulae that we establish in this
general setting.
  The Bogoliubov recursion is a particular procedure appearing in the process
of renormalization in perturbative quantum field theory. It provides convergent
expressions for otherwise divergent integrals. We develop here a theory of
functional identities for noncommutative Rota-Baxter algebras which is shown to
encode, among others, this process in the context of Connes-Kreimer's Hopf
algebra of renormalization. Our results generalize the seminal Cartier-Rota
theory of classical Spitzer-type identities for commutative Rota-Baxter
algebras. In the classical, commutative, case, these identities can be
understood as deriving from the theory of symmetric functions. Here, we show
that an analogous property holds for noncommutative Rota-Baxter algebras. That
is, we show that functional identities in the noncommutative setting can be
derived from the theory of noncommutative symmetric functions. Lie idempotents,
and particularly the Dynkin idempotent play a crucial role in the process.
Their action on the pro-unipotent groups such as those of perturbative
renormalization is described in detail along the way.
  In this paper we consider two processes driven by diffusions and jumps. The
jump components are Levy processes and they can both have finite activity and
infinite activity. Given discrete observations we estimate the covariation
between the two diffusion parts and the co-jumps. The detection of the co-jumps
allows to gain insight in the dependence structure of the jump components and
has important applications in finance. Our estimators are based on a threshold
principle allowing to isolate the jumps. This work follows Gobbi and Mancini
(2006) where the asymptotic normality for the estimator of the covariation,
with convergence speed given by the squared root of h, was obtained when the
jump components have finite activity. Here we show that the speed is the
squared root of h only when the activity of the jump components is moderate.
  A new class of Marginal Structural Models (MSMs), History-Restricted MSMs
(HRMSMs), was recently introduced for longitudinal data for the purpose of
defining causal parameters which may often be better suited for public health
research or at least more practicable than MSMs \citejoffe,feldman. HRMSMs
allow investigators to analyze the causal effect of a treatment on an outcome
based on a fixed, shorter and user-specified history of exposure compared to
MSMs. By default, the latter represent the treatment causal effect of interest
based on a treatment history defined by the treatments assigned between the
study's start and outcome collection. We lay out in this article the formal
statistical framework behind HRMSMs. Beyond allowing a more flexible causal
analysis, HRMSMs improve computational tractability and mitigate statistical
power concerns when designing longitudinal studies. We also develop three
consistent estimators of HRMSM parameters under sufficient model assumptions:
the Inverse Probability of Treatment Weighted (IPTW), G-computation and Double
Robust (DR) estimators. In addition, we show that the assumptions commonly
adopted for identification and consistent estimation of MSM parameters
(existence of counterfactuals, consistency, time-ordering and sequential
randomization assumptions) also lead to identification and consistent
estimation of HRMSM parameters.
  This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to essential mistakes in some
previous versions.
  The theory of Bogoliubov is generalized for the case of a weakly-interacting
Bose-gas in harmonic trap. A set of nonlinear matrix equations is obtained to
make the diagonalization of Hamiltonian possible. Its perturbative solution is
used for the calculation of the energy and the condensate fraction of the model
system to show the applicability of the method.
  I prove a basic inequality for Schatten q-norms of quantum states on a
finite-dimensional bipartite Hilbert space H_1\otimes H_2: 1+||\rho||_q \ge
||\trace_1\rho||_q + ||\trace_2\rho||_q. This leads to a proof--in the finite
dimensional case--of Raggio's conjecture (G.A. Raggio, J. Math. Phys.\
\textbf{36}, 4785--4791 (1995)) that the q-entropies
S_q(\rho)=(1-\trace[\rho^q])/(q-1) are subadditive for q > 1; that is, for any
state \rho, S_q(\rho) is not greater than the sum of the S_q of its reductions,
S_q(\rho) \le S_q(\trace_1\rho)+S_q(\trace_2\rho).
  It is about the uniqueness of the Iwasawa decomposition.
  It is shown how to model weakly dissipative free-surface flows using the
classical potential flow approach. The Helmholtz-Leray decomposition is applied
to the linearized 3D Navier-Stokes equations. The governing equations are
treated using Fourier--Laplace transforms. We show how to express the vortical
component of the velocity only in terms of the potential and free-surface
elevation. A new predominant nonlocal viscous term is derived in the bottom
kinematic boundary condition. The resulting formulation is simple and does not
involve any correction procedure as in previous viscous potential flow theories
[Joseph2004]. Corresponding long wave model equations are derived.
  We define the notion of a power stable ideal in a polynomial ring $ R[X]$
over an integral domain $ R $. It is proved that a maximal ideal $\chi$ $ M $
in $ R[X]$ is power stable if and only if $ P^t $ is $ P$- primary for all $
t\geq 1 $ for the prime ideal $ P = M \cap R $. Using this we prove that for a
Hilbert domain $R$ any radical ideal in $R[X]$ which is a finite intersection
G-ideals is power stable. Further, we prove that if $ R $ is a Noetherian
integral domain of dimension 1 then any radical ideal in $ R[X] $ is power
stable. Finally, it is proved that if every ideal in $ R[X]$ is power stable
then $ R $ is a field.
  This article introduces new algorithms for the uniform random generation of
labelled planar graphs. Its principles rely on Boltzmann samplers, as recently
developed by Duchon, Flajolet, Louchard, and Schaeffer. It combines the
Boltzmann framework, a suitable use of rejection, a new combinatorial bijection
found by Fusy, Poulalhon and Schaeffer, as well as a precise analytic
description of the generating functions counting planar graphs, which was
recently obtained by Gim\'enez and Noy. This gives rise to an extremely
efficient algorithm for the random generation of planar graphs. There is a
preprocessing step of some fixed small cost. Then, the expected time complexity
of generation is quadratic for exact-size uniform sampling and linear for
approximate-size sampling. This greatly improves on the best previously known
time complexity for exact-size uniform sampling of planar graphs with $n$
vertices, which was a little over $O(n^7)$.
  We give a new proof of the classical result due to Rodney Y. Sharp and Peter
Vamos on the dimension of tensor product of a finite number of field extensions
of a given field.
  Let $\dlap$ be the discrete Laplace operator acting on functions (or rational
matrices) $f:\mathbf{Q}_L\to\mathbb{Q}$, where $\mathbf{Q}_L$ is the two
dimensional lattice of size $L$ embedded in $\mathbb{Z}_2$. Consider a rational
$L\times L$ matrix $\mathcal{H}$, whose inner entries $\mathcal{H}_{ij}$
satisfy $\dlap\mathcal{H}_{ij}=0$. The matrix $\mathcal{H}$ is thus the
classical finite difference five-points approximation of the Laplace operator
in two variables. We give a constructive proof that $\mathcal{H}$ is the
restriction to $\mathbf{Q}_L$ of a discrete harmonic polynomial in two
variables for any $L>2$. This result proves a conjecture formulated in the
context of deterministic fixed-energy sandpile models in statistical mechanics.
  We develop a pricing rule for life insurance under stochastic mortality in an
incomplete market by assuming that the insurance company requires compensation
for its risk in the form of a pre-specified instantaneous Sharpe ratio. Our
valuation formula satisfies a number of desirable properties, many of which it
shares with the standard deviation premium principle. The major result of the
paper is that the price per contract solves a linear partial differential
equation as the number of contracts approaches infinity. One can interpret the
limiting price as an expectation with respect to an equivalent martingale
measure. Another important result is that if the hazard rate is stochastic,
then the risk-adjusted premium is greater than the net premium, even as the
number of contracts approaches infinity. We present a numerical example to
illustrate our results, along with the corresponding algorithms.
  The number of domino tilings of a region with reflective symmetry across a
line is combinatorially shown to depend on the number of domino tilings of
particular subregions, modulo 4. This expands upon previous congruency results
for domino tilings, modulo 2, and leads to a variety of corollaries, including
that the number of domino tilings of a k x 2k rectangle is congruent to 1 mod
4.
  We develop a theory for pricing non-diversifiable mortality risk in an
incomplete market. We do this by assuming that the company issuing a
mortality-contingent claim requires compensation for this risk in the form of a
pre-specified instantaneous Sharpe ratio. We prove that our ensuing valuation
formula satisfies a number of desirable properties. For example, we show that
it is subadditive in the number of contracts sold. A key result is that if the
hazard rate is stochastic, then the risk-adjusted survival probability is
greater than the physical survival probability, even as the number of contracts
approaches infinity.
  This is the revised version of the second paper in a series introducing a
generalized Fredholm theory in a new class of smooth spaces called polyfolds.
The theory will be illustrated in upcoming papers by applications to Floer
Theory, Gromov-Witten Theory and Symplectic Field Theory.
  Some proofs have been improved and a glossary added.
  We study ideals of Novikov algebras and Novikov structures on
finite-dimensional Lie algebras. We present the first example of a three-step
nilpotent Lie algebra which does not admit a Novikov structure. On the other
hand we show that any free three-step nilpotent Lie algebra admits a Novikov
structure. We study the existence question also for Lie algebras of triangular
matrices. Finally we show that there are families of Lie algebras of arbitrary
high solvability class which admit Novikov structures.
  Mutant knots, in the sense of Conway, are known to share the same Homfly
polynomial. Their 2-string satellites also share the same Homfly polynomial,
but in general their m-string satellites can have different Homfly polynomials
for m>2. We show that, under conditions of extra symmetry on the constituent
2-tangles, the directed m-string satellites of mutants share the same Homfly
polynomial for m<6 in general, and for all choices of m when the satellite is
based on a cable knot pattern.
  We give examples of mutants with extra symmetry whose Homfly polynomials of
some 6-string satellites are different, by comparing their quantum sl(3)
invariants.
  An algebraic framework for quantization in presence of arbitrary number of
point-like defects on the line is developed. We consider a scalar field which
interacts with the defects and freely propagates away of them. As an
application we compute the Casimir force both at zero and finite temperature.
We derive also the charge density in the Gibbs state of a complex scalar field
with defects. The example of two delta-defects is treated in detail.
  The Zernike radial polynomials are a system of orthogonal polynomials over
the unit interval with weight x. They are used as basis functions in optics to
expand fields over the cross section of circular pupils. To calculate the roots
of Zernike polynomials, we optimize the generic iterative numerical Newton's
Method that iterates on zeros of functions with third order convergence. The
technique is based on rewriting the polynomials as Gauss hypergeometric
functions, reduction of second order derivatives to first order derivatives,
and evaluation of some ratios of derivatives by terminating continued
fractions.
  A PARI program and a short table of zeros complete up to polynomials of 20th
order are included.
  We prove a global existence theorem for the $3\times 3$ system of
relativistic Euler equations in one spacial dimension. It is shown that in the
ultra-relativistic limit, there is a family of equations of state that satisfy
the second law of thermodynamics for which solutions exist globally. With this
limit and equation of state, which includes equations of state for both an
ideal gas and one dominated by radiation, the relativistic Euler equations can
be analyzed by a Nishida-type method leading to a large data existence theorem,
including the entropy and particle number evolution, using a Glimm scheme. Our
analysis uses the fact that the equations of state are of the form $p=p(n,S)$,
but whose form simplifies to $p=a^{2}\rho$ when viewed as a function of $\rho$
alone.
  We use a generalization of Wiener's $1/f$ theorem to prove that for a Gabor
frame with the generator in the Wiener amalgam space $W(L^{\infty},
\ell^{1}_{\nu})(\mathbb{R}^{d})$, the corresponding frame operator is
invertible on this space. Therefore, for such a Gabor frame, the generator of
the canonical dual belongs also to $W(L^{\infty},
\ell^{1}_{\nu})(\mathbb{R}^{d}) $
  Diversity-multiplexing tradeoff (DMT) presents a compact framework to compare
various MIMO systems and channels in terms of the two main advantages they
provide (i.e. high data rate and/or low error rate). This tradeoff was
characterized asymptotically (SNR-> infinity) for i.i.d. Rayleigh fading
channel by Zheng and Tse [1]. The asymptotic DMT overestimates the finite-SNR
one [2]. In this paper, using the recent results on the asymptotic (in the
number of antennas) outage capacity distribution, we derive and analyze the
finite-SNR DMT for a broad class of channels (not necessarily Rayleigh fading).
Based on this, we give the convergence conditions for the asymptotic DMT to be
approached by the finite-SNR one. The multiplexing gain definition is shown to
affect critically the convergence point: when the multiplexing gain is defined
via the mean (ergodic) capacity, the convergence takes place at realistic SNR
values. Furthermore, in this case the diversity gain can also be used to
estimate the outage probability with reasonable accuracy. The multiplexing gain
definition via the high-SNR asymptote of the mean capacity (as in [1]) results
in very slow convergence for moderate to large systems (as 1/ln(SNR)^2) and,
hence, the asymptotic DMT cannot be used at realistic SNR values. For this
definition, the high-SNR threshold increases exponentially in the number of
antennas and in the multiplexing gain. For correlated keyhole channel, the
diversity gain is shown to decrease with correlation and power imbalance of the
channel. While the SNR-asymptotic DMT of Zheng and Tse does not capture this
effect, the size-asymptotic DMT does.
  A unified analytical framework for optimum power allocation in the unordered
V-BLAST algorithm and its comparative performance analysis are presented.
Compact closed-form approximations for the optimum power allocation are
derived, based on average total and block error rates. The choice of the
criterion has little impact on the power allocation and, overall, the optimum
strategy is to allocate more power to lower step transmitters and less to
higher ones. High-SNR approximations for optimized average block and total
error rates are given. The SNR gain of optimization is rigorously defined and
studied using analytical tools, including lower and upper bounds, high and low
SNR approximations. The gain is upper bounded by the number of transmitters,
for any modulation format and type of fading channel. While the average
optimization is less complex than the instantaneous one, its performance is
almost as good at high SNR. A measure of robustness of the optimized algorithm
is introduced and evaluated. The optimized algorithm is shown to be robust to
perturbations in individual and total transmit powers. Based on the algorithm
robustness, a pre-set power allocation is suggested as a low-complexity
alternative to the other optimization strategies, which exhibits only a minor
loss in performance over the practical SNR range.
  The main result of this paper is a bound on the distance between the
distribution of an eigenfunction of the Laplacian on a compact Riemannian
manifold and the Gaussian distribution. If $X$ is a random point on a manifold
$M$ and $f$ is an eigenfunction of the Laplacian with $L^2$-norm one and
eigenvalue $-\mu$, then $$d_{TV}(f(X),Z)\le\frac{2}{\mu}\E\big|\|\nabla
f(X)\|^2-\E\|\nabla f(X) \|^2\big|.$$ This result is applied to construct
specific examples of spherical harmonics of arbitrary (odd) degree which are
close to Gaussian in distribution. A second application is given to random
linear combinations of eigenfunctions on flat tori.
  The min-sum (MS) algorithm is arguably the second most fundamental algorithm
in the realm of message passing due to its optimality (for a tree code) with
respect to the {\em block error} probability \cite{Wiberg}. There also seems to
be a fundamental relationship of MS decoding with the linear programming
decoder \cite{Koetter}. Despite its importance, its fundamental properties have
not nearly been studied as well as those of the sum-product (also known as BP)
algorithm.
  We address two questions related to the MS rule. First, we characterize the
stability condition under MS decoding. It turns out to be essentially the same
condition as under BP decoding. Second, we perform a degree distribution
optimization. Contrary to the case of BP decoding, under MS decoding the
thresholds of the best degree distributions for standard irregular LDPC
ensembles are significantly bounded away from the Shannon threshold. More
precisely, on the AWGN channel, for the best codes that we find, the gap to
capacity is 1dB for a rate 0.3 code and it is 0.4dB when the rate is 0.9 (the
gap decreases monotonically as we increase the rate).
  We also used the optimization procedure to design codes for modified MS
algorithm where the output of the check node is scaled by a constant
$1/\alpha$. For $\alpha = 1.25$, we observed that the gap to capacity was
lesser for the modified MS algorithm when compared with the MS algorithm.
However, it was still quite large, varying from 0.75 dB to 0.2 dB for rates
between 0.3 and 0.9.
  We conclude by posing what we consider to be the most important open
questions related to the MS algorithm.
  In the bootstrap percolation model, sites in an L by L square are initially
infected independently with probability p. At subsequent steps, a healthy site
becomes infected if it has at least 2 infected neighbours. As
(L,p)->(infinity,0), the probability that the entire square is eventually
infected is known to undergo a phase transition in the parameter p log L,
occurring asymptotically at lambda = pi^2/18. We prove that the discrepancy
between the critical parameter and its limit lambda is at least Omega((log
L)^(-1/2)). In contrast, the critical window has width only Theta((log
L)^(-1)). For the so-called modified model, we prove rigorous explicit bounds
which imply for example that the relative discrepancy is at least 1% even when
L = 10^3000. Our results shed some light on the observed differences between
simulations and rigorous asymptotics.
  It is shown that the classification theorems for semisimple algebraic groups
in characteristic zero can be derived quite simply and naturally from the
corresponding theorems for Lie algebras by using a little of the theory of
tensor categories. This article is extracted from Milne 2007.
  We establish a direct map between refined topological vertex and sl(N)
homological invariants of the of Hopf link, which include Khovanov-Rozansky
homology as a special case. This relation provides an exact answer for
homological invariants of the of Hopf link, whose components are colored by
arbitrary representations of sl(N). At present, the mathematical formulation of
such homological invariants is available only for the fundamental
representation (the Khovanov-Rozansky theory) and the relation with the refined
topological vertex should be useful for categorifying quantum group invariants
associated with other representations (R_1, R_2). Our result is a first direct
verification of a series of conjectures which identifies link homologies with
the Hilbert space of BPS states in the presence of branes, where the physical
interpretation of gradings is in terms of charges of the branes ending on
Lagrangian branes.
  We give the Thom polynomials for the singularities $I_{2,2}$ associated with
maps $({\bf C}^{\bullet},0) \to ({\bf C}^{\bullet+k},0)$ with parameter $k\ge
0$. Our computations combine the characterization of Thom polynomials via the
``method of restriction equations'' of Rimanyi et al. with the techniques of
Schur functions.
  In this short note we present some remarks and conjectures on two of
Erd\"os's open problems in number theory.
  We relate the notion of matroid pathwidth to the minimum trellis
state-complexity (which we term trellis-width) of a linear code, and to the
pathwidth of a graph. By reducing from the problem of computing the pathwidth
of a graph, we show that the problem of determining the pathwidth of a
representable matroid is NP-hard. Consequently, the problem of computing the
trellis-width of a linear code is also NP-hard. For a finite field $\F$, we
also consider the class of $\F$-representable matroids of pathwidth at most
$w$, and correspondingly, the family of linear codes over $\F$ with
trellis-width at most $w$. These are easily seen to be minor-closed. Since
these matroids (and codes) have branchwidth at most $w$, a result of Geelen and
Whittle shows that such matroids (and the corresponding codes) are
characterized by finitely many excluded minors. We provide the complete list of
excluded minors for $w=1$, and give a partial list for $w=2$.
  Let G be a simple and simply-connected complex algebraic group, P \subset G a
parabolic subgroup. We prove an unpublished result of D. Peterson which states
that the quantum cohomology QH^*(G/P) of a flag variety is, up to localization,
a quotient of the homology H_*(Gr_G) of the affine Grassmannian \Gr_G of G. As
a consequence, all three-point genus zero Gromov-Witten invariants of $G/P$ are
identified with homology Schubert structure constants of H_*(Gr_G),
establishing the equivalence of the quantum and homology affine Schubert
calculi.
  For the case G = B, we use the Mihalcea's equivariant quantum Chevalley
formula for QH^*(G/B), together with relationships between the quantum Bruhat
graph of Brenti, Fomin and Postnikov and the Bruhat order on the affine Weyl
group. As byproducts we obtain formulae for affine Schubert homology classes in
terms of quantum Schubert polynomials. We give some applications in quantum
cohomology.
  Our main results extend to the torus-equivariant setting.
  This paper extends Krein's spectral shift function theory to the setting of
semifinite spectral triples. We define the spectral shift function under these
hypotheses via Birman-Solomyak spectral averaging formula and show that it
computes spectral flow.
  We consider Schr\"odinger operator in dimension $d\ge 2$ with a singular
interaction supported by an infinite family of concentric spheres, analogous to
a system studied by Hempel and coauthors for regular potentials. The essential
spectrum covers a halfline determined by the appropriate one-dimensional
comparison operator; it is dense pure point in the gaps of the latter. If the
interaction is radially periodic, there are absolutely continuous bands; in
contrast to the regular case the measure of the p.p. segments does not vanish
in the high-energy limit.
  We consider the $osp(1|2)$-invariant bilinear operations on weighted
densities on the supercircle $S^{1|1}$ called the supertransvectants. These
operations are analogues of the famous Gordan transvectants (or Rankin-Cohen
brackets). We prove that these operations coincide with the iterated Poisson
and ghost Poisson brackets on ${\mathbb R}^{2|1}$ and apply this result to
construct star-products involving the supertransvectants.
  We show that any compact group can be realized as the outer automorphism
group of a factor of type II_1. This has been proved in the abelian case by
Ioana, Peterson and Popa applying Popa's deformation/rigidity techniques to
amalgamated free product von Neumann algebras. Our methods are a generalization
of theirs.
  By generalizing and extending some of the earlier results derived by Manin
and Merkulov, a twistor description is given of four-dimensional N-extended
(gauged) self-dual supergravity with and without cosmological constant.
Starting from the category of (4|4N)-dimensional complex superconformal
supermanifolds, the categories of (4|2N)-dimensional complex quaternionic,
quaternionic Kaehler and hyper-Kaehler right-chiral supermanifolds are
introduced and discussed. We then present a detailed twistor description of
these types of supermanifolds. In particular, we construct supertwistor spaces
associated with complex quaternionic right-chiral supermanifolds, and explain
what additional supertwistor data allows for giving those supermanifolds a
hyper-Kaehler structure. In this way, we obtain a supersymmetric generalization
of Penrose's nonlinear graviton construction. We furthermore give an
alternative formulation in terms of a supersymmetric extension of LeBrun's
Einstein bundle. This allows us to include the cases with nonvanishing
cosmological constant. We also discuss the bundle of local supertwistors and
address certain implications thereof. Finally, we comment on a real version of
the theory related to Euclidean signature.
  Let k be a finite field of odd characteristic. We find a closed formula for
the number of k-isomorphism classes of pointed, and non-pointed, hyperelliptic
curves of genus g over k, admitting a Koblitz model. These numbers are
expressed as a polynomial in the cardinality q of k, with integer coefficients
(for pointed curves) and rational coefficients (for non-pointed curves). The
coefficients depend on g and the set of divisors of q-1 and q+1. These formulas
show that the number of hyperelliptic curves of genus g suitable (in principle)
of cryptographic applications is asymptotically (1-e^{-1})2q^{2g-1}, and not
2q^{2g-1} as it was believed. The curves of genus g=2 and g=3 are more
resistant to the attacks to the DLP; for these values of g the number of curves
is respectively (91/72)q^3+O(q^2) and (3641/2880)q^5+O(q^4).
  The knowledge on irrationality of p-adic zeta values has recently progressed.
The irrationality of zeta_2(2), \zeta_2(3) and of a few other p-adic series of
Dirichlet was obtained by F. Calegari. F. Beukers gave a more elementary proof
of this result. In parallel, T. Rivoal has just obtained, in the complex case,
some Pade approximants of Lerch functions. It is this work which, transposed to
C_p, enables us to obtain results of irrationality and linear independence.
  We give a survey on b-function, spectrum, and multiplier ideals together with
certain interesting relations among them including the case of arbitrary
subvarieties.
  We consider the asymptotic behaviour of the solution of one dimensional
stochastic differential equations and Langevin equations in periodic
backgrounds with zero average. We prove that in several such models, there is
generically a non vanishing asymptotic velocity, despite of the fact that the
average of the background is zero.
  We classify the entire minimal vertical graphs in the 3 dimensional
Heisenberg group Nil endowed with a Riemannian left-invariant metric. This
classification, which provides a solution to the Bernstein problem in Nil, is
given in terms of the Abresch-Rosenberg holomorphic differential for minimal
surfaces in Nil.
  A dilatation structure on a metric space, arXiv:math/0608536v4, is a notion
in between a group and a differential structure, accounting for the approximate
self-similarity of the metric space.
  The basic objects of a dilatation structure are dilatations (or
contractions). The axioms of a dilatation structure set the rules of
interaction between different dilatations.
  Linearity is also a property which can be explained with the help of a
dilatation structure. In this paper we show that we can speak about two kinds
of linearity: the linearity of a function between two dilatation structures and
the linearity of the dilatation structure itself.
  Our main result here is a characterization of contractible groups in terms of
dilatation structures. To a normed conical group (normed contractible group) we
can naturally associate a linear dilatation structure. Conversely, any linear
and strong dilatation structure comes from the dilatation structure of a normed
contractible group.
  Consider the Jacobian of a genus two curve defined over a finite field and
with complex multiplication. In this paper we show that if the l-Sylow subgroup
of the Jacobian is not cyclic, then the embedding degree of the Jacobian with
respect to l is one.
  Let A be a subspace arrangement with a geometric lattice such that codim(x) >
1 for every x in A. Using rational homotopy theory, we prove that the
complement M(A) is rationally elliptic if and only if the sum of the orthogonal
subspaces is a direct sum. The homotopy type of M(A) is also given: it is a
product of odd dimensional spheres. Finally, some other equivalent conditions
are given, such as Poincare duality. Those results give a complete description
of arrangements (with geometric lattice and with the codimension condition on
the subspaces) such that M(A) is rationally elliptic, and show that most
arrangements have an hyperbolic complement.
  Let A be a geometric arrangement such that codim(x) > 1 for every x in A. We
prove that, if the complement space M(A) is rationally hyperbolic, then there
exists an injective from a free Lie algebra L(u,v) to the homotopy Lie algebra
of M(A).
  In this paper we present a unifying approach to study the homotopy type of
several complexes arising from forests. We show that this method applies
uniformly to many complexes that have been extensively studied.
  We establish a one-to-one correspondence between the Young tableaux
classifying the total spin representations of N spins and the exact eigenstates
of the the Haldane-Shastry model for a chain with N sites classified by the
total spins and the fractionally spaced single-particle momenta of the spinons.
  We construct a commutative algebra A_x of difference operators in R^p,
depending on p+3 real parameters which is diagonalized by the multivariable
Racah polynomials R_p(n;x) considered by Tratnik [27]. It is shown that for
specific values of the variables x=(x_1,x_2,...,x_p) there is a hidden duality
between n and x. Analytic continuation allows us to construct another
commutative algebra A_n in the variables n=(n_1,n_2,...,n_p) which is also
diagonalized by R_p(n;x). Thus R_p(n;x) solve a multivariable discrete
bispectral problem in the sense of Duistermaat and Grunbaum [8]. Since a change
of the variables and the parameters in the Racah polynomials gives the
multivariable Wilson polynomials [26], this change of variables and parameters
in A_x and A_n leads to bispectral commutative algebras for the multivariable
Wilson polynomials.
  We study the horofunction boundary of an Artin group of dihedral type with
its word metric coming from either the usual Artin generators or the dual
generators. In both cases, we determine the horoboundary and say which points
are Busemann points, that is the limits of geodesic rays. In the case of the
dual generators, it turns out that all boundary points are Busemann points, but
this is not true for the Artin generators. We also characterise the geodesics
with respect to the dual generators, which allows us to calculate the
associated geodesic growth series.
  We present the census of all non-orientable, closed, connected 3-manifolds
admitting a rigid crystallization with at most 30 vertices. In order to obtain
the above result, we generate, manipulate and compare, by suitable computer
procedures, all rigid non-bipartite crystallizations up to 30 vertices.
  For the equation (-\Delta u = | |x|-2 |^\alpha u^{p-1}), (1 < |x| < 3), we
prove the existence of two solutions for (\alpha) large, and of two additional
solutions when (p) is close to the critical Sobolev exponent (2^*=2N/(N-2)). A
symmetry--breaking phenomenon appears, showing that the least--energy solutions
cannot be radial functions.
  Suppose $A$ is a separable unital $C(X)$-algebra each fibre of which is
isomorphic to the same strongly self-absorbing and $K_{1}$-injective
$C^{*}$-algebra $D$. We show that $A$ and $C(X) \otimes D$ are isomorphic as
$C(X)$-algebras provided the compact Hausdorff space $X$ is finite-dimensional.
This statement is known not to extend to the infinite-dimensional case.
  We show that a semi-classical quantum field theory comes with a versal family
with the property that the corresponding partition function generates all path
integrals and satisfies a system of 2nd order differential equations determined
by algebras of classical observables. This versal family gives rise to a notion
of special coordinates that is analogous to that in string theories. We also
show that for a large class of semi-classical theories, their moduli space has
the structure of a Frobenius super-manifold.
  The scaling limit of the spin cluster boundaries of the Ising model with
domain wall boundary conditions is SLE with kappa=3. We hypothesise that the
three-state Potts model with appropriate boundary conditions has spin cluster
boundaries which are also SLE in the scaling limit, but with kappa=10/3. To
test this, we generate samples using the Wolff algorithm and test them against
predictions of SLE: we examine the statistics of the Loewner driving function,
estimate the fractal dimension and test against Schramm's formula. The results
are in support of our hypothesis.
  In 1986, the second author classified the minimal clones on a finite universe
into five types. We extend this classification to infinite universes and to
multiclones. We show that every non-trivial clone contains a "small" clone of
one of the five types. From it we deduce, in part, an earlier result, namely
that if $\mathcal C$ is a clone on a universe $A$ with at least two elements,
that contains all constant operations, then all binary idempotent operations
are projections and some $m$-ary idempotent operation is not a projection some
$m\geq 3$ if and only if there is a Boolean group $G$ on $A$ for which
$\mathcal C$ is the set of all operations $f(x_1,..., x_n)$ of the form
$a+\sum_{i\in I}x_i$ for $a\in A$ and $I\subseteq \{1,..., n\}$.
  Lecture 1: Projective and K\"ahler Manifolds, the Enriques classification,
construction techniques. Lecture 2: Surfaces of general type and their
Canonical models. Deformation equivalence and singularities. Lecture 3:
Deformation and diffeomorphism, canonical symplectic structure for surfaces of
general type. Lecture 4: Irrational pencils, orbifold fundamental groups, and
surfaces isogenous to a product. Lecture 5: Lefschetz pencils, braid and
mapping class groups, and diffeomorphism of ABC-surfaces. Epilogue:
Deformation, diffeomorphism and symplectomorphism type of surfaces of general
type.
  We consider the discretization
  y(t+\epsilon)=y(t-\epsilon)+2\epsilon\big(1-y(t)^{2}\big),
  $\epsilon>0$ a small parameter, of the logistic differential equation
$y'=2\big(1-y^{2}\big)$, which can also be seen as a discretization of the
system
  {y'=2\big(1-v^{2}\big),
  v'= 2\big(1-y^{2}\big).
  This system has two saddle points at $A=(1,1)$, $B=(-1, -1)$ and there exist
stable and unstable manifolds. We will show that the stable manifold
$W_{s}^{+}$ of the point $A=(1,1)$ and the unstable manifold $W_{i}^{-}$ of the
point $B=(-1, -1)$ for the discretization do not coincide. The vertical
distance between these two manifolds is exponentially small but not zero, in
particular we give an asymptotic estimate of this distance. For this purpose we
will use a method adapted from the paper of Sch\"afke-Volkmer \cite{SV} using
formal series and accurate estimates of the coefficients.
  In the presence of noncompact symmetry, the stability of relative equilibria
under momentum-preserving perturbations does not generally imply robust
stability under momentum-changing perturbations. For axisymmetric relative
equilibria of Hamiltonian systems with Euclidean symmetry, we investigate
different mechanisms of stability: stability by energy-momentum confinement,
KAM, and Nekhoroshev stability, and we explain the transitions between these.
We apply our results to the Kirchhoff model for the motion of an axisymmetric
underwater vehicle, and we numerically study dissipation induced instability of
KAM stable relative equilibria for this system.
  The rotor-router model is a deterministic analogue of random walk. It can be
used to define a deterministic growth model analogous to internal DLA. We show
that the set of occupied sites for this model on an infinite regular tree is a
perfect ball whenever it can be, provided the initial rotor configuration is
acyclic (that is, no two neighboring vertices have rotors pointing to one
another). This is proved by defining the rotor-router group of a graph, which
we show is isomorphic to the sandpile group. We also address the question of
recurrence and transience: We give two rotor configurations on the infinite
ternary tree, one for which chips exactly alternate escaping to infinity with
returning to the origin, and one for which every chip returns to the origin.
Further, we characterize the possible "escape sequences" for the ternary tree,
that is, binary words a_1 ... a_n for which there exists a rotor configuration
so that the k-th chip escapes to infinity if and only if a_k=1.
  In this paper we investigate non-central elements of the Iwahori-Hecke
algebra of the symmetric group whose squares are central.
  In particular, we describe a commutative subalgebra generated by certain
non-central square roots of central elements, and the generic existence of a
rank-three submodule of the Hecke algebra contained in the square root of the
centre but not in the centre. The generators for this commutative subalgebra
include the longest word and elements related to trivial and sign characters of
the Hecke algebra. We find elegant expressions for the squares of such
generators in terms of both the minimal basis of the centre and the elementary
symmetric functions of Murphy elements.
  Let \pi be a cuspidal automorphic representation of GL_4 with central
character \mu^2. It is known that \pi has Shalika period with respect to \mu if
and only if the L-function L^S(s, \pi, \bigwedge^2\otimes\mu^{-1}) has a pole
at s=1. Recentlt, Jacquet and Martin considered the analogous question for
cuspidal representations \pi_D of the inner form GL_2(D)(\A), and obtained a
partial result via the relative trace formula. In this paper, we provide a
complete solution to this problem via the method of theta correspondence, and
give necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of Shalika period
for \pi_D. We also resolve the analogous question in the local setting.
  A general theory of summation of divergent series based on the
Hardy-Kolmogorov axioms is developed. A class of functional series is
investigated by means of ergodic theory. The results are formulated in terms of
solvability of some cohomological equations, all solutions to which are
nonmeasurable. In particular, this realizes a construction of a nonmeasurable
function as first conjectured by Kolmogorov.
  We describe a recursive algorithm that produces an integral basis for the
centre of the Hecke algebra of type A consisting of linear combinations of
monomial symmetric polynomials of Jucys--Murphy elements. We also discuss the
existence of integral bases for the centre of the Hecke algebra that consist
solely of monomial symmetric polynomials of Jucys--Murphy elements. Finally,
for n=3, we show that only one such basis exists for the centre of the Hecke
algebra, by proving that there are exactly four bases for the centre of the
corresponding symmetric group algebra which consist solely of monomial
symmetric polynomials of Jucys--Murphy elements.
  The increasing interest in the Mueller density-matrix-functional theory has
led us to a systematic mathematical investigation of its properties. This
functional is similar to the Hartree-Fock functional, but with a modified
exchange term in which the square of the density matrix \gamma(X, X') is
replaced by the square of \gamma^{1/2}(X, X'). After an extensive introductory
discussion of density-matrix-functional theory we show, among other things,
that this functional is convex (unlike the HF functional) and that energy
minimizing \gamma's have unique densities \rho(x), which is a physically
desirable property often absent in HF theory. We show that minimizers exist if
N \leq Z, and derive various properties of the minimal energy and the
corresponding minimizers. We also give a precise statement about the equation
for the orbitals of \gamma, which is more complex than for HF theory. We state
some open mathematical questions about the theory together with conjectured
solutions.
  S.Bauer and M.Furuta defined a stable cohomotopy refinement of the
Seiberg-Witten invariants. In this paper, we prove a vanishing theorem of
Bauer-Furuta invariants for 4-manifolds with smooth Z/2-actions. As an
application, we give a constraint on smooth Z/2-actions on homotopy K3#K3, and
construct a nonsmoothable locally linear Z/2-action on K3#K3. We also construct
a nonsmoothable locally linear Z/2-action on $K3$.
  We obtain the structure of weight 2 blocks and [2:1]-pairs of q-Schur
algebras, and compute explicitly the modular Alvis-Curtis duality for weight 2
blocks of finite general linear groups in non-defining characteristic.
  The least-area hypersurface enclosing and separating two given volumes in R^n
is the standard double bubble.
  We propose a program for finding the cyclicity of period annuli of quadratic
systems with centers of genus one. As a first step, we classify all such
systems and determine the essential one-parameter quadratic perturbations which
produce the maximal number of limit cycles. We compute the associated
Poincare-Pontryagin-Melnikov functions whose zeros control the number of limit
cycles. To illustrate our approach, we determine the cyclicity of the annuli of
two particular reversible systems.
  Extending our results in "Entropy conjecture for continuous maps of
nilmanifolds", to appear in Israel Jour. of Math., we confirm that Entropy
Conjecture holds for every continuous self-map of a compact $K(\pi,1)$ manifold
with the fundamental group $\pi$ torsion free and virtually nilpotent, in
particular for every continuous map of an infra-nilmanifold. In fact we prove a
stronger version, a lower estimate of the topological entropy of a map by
logarithm of the spectral radius of an associated "linearization matrix" with
integer entries.
  From this, referring to known estimates of Mahler measure of polynomials, we
deduce some absolute lower bounds for the entropy.
  In this paper, a family of low-density parity-check (LDPC) degree
distributions, whose decoding threshold on the binary erasure channel (BEC)
admits a simple closed form, is presented. These degree distributions are a
subset of the check regular distributions (i.e. all the check nodes have the
same degree), and are referred to as $p$-positive distributions. It is given
proof that the threshold for a $p$-positive distribution is simply expressed by
$[\lambda'(0)\rho'(1)]^{-1}$. Besides this closed form threshold expression,
the $p$-positive distributions exhibit three additional properties. First, for
given code rate, check degree and maximum variable degree, they are in some
cases characterized by a threshold which is extremely close to that of the best
known check regular distributions, under the same set of constraints. Second,
the threshold optimization problem within the $p$-positive class can be solved
in some cases with analytic methods, without using any numerical optimization
tool. Third, these distributions can achieve the BEC capacity. The last
property is shown by proving that the well-known binomial degree distributions
belong to the $p$-positive family.
  A concentration graph associated with a random vector is an undirected graph
where each vertex corresponds to one random variable in the vector. The absence
of an edge between any pair of vertices (or variables) is equivalent to full
conditional independence between these two variables given all the other
variables. In the multivariate Gaussian case, the absence of an edge
corresponds to a zero coefficient in the precision matrix, which is the inverse
of the covariance matrix. It is well known that this concentration graph
represents some of the conditional independencies in the distribution of the
associated random vector. These conditional independencies correspond to the
"separations" or absence of edges in that graph. In this paper we assume that
there are no other independencies present in the probability distribution than
those represented by the graph. This property is called the perfect
Markovianity of the probability distribution with respect to the associated
concentration graph. We prove in this paper that this particular concentration
graph, the one associated with a perfect Markov distribution, can be determined
by only conditioning on a limited number of variables. We demonstrate that this
number is equal to the maximum size of the minimal separators in the
concentration graph.
  We consider boundary Harnack inequalities for regional fractional Laplacian
which are generators of censored stable-like processes on G taking
\kappa(x,y)/|x-y|^{n+\alpha}dxdy, x,y\in G as the jumping measure. When G is a
C^{1,\beta-1} open set, 1<\alpha<\beta\leq 2 and \kappa\in
C^{1}(\overline{G}\times \overline{G}) bounded between two positive numbers, we
prove a boundary Harnack inequality giving dist(x,\partial G)^{\alpha-1} order
decay for harmonic functions near the boundary. For a C^{1,\beta-1} open set
D\subset \overline{D}\subset G, 0<\alpha\leq (1\vee\alpha)<\beta\leq 2, we
prove a boundary Harnack inequality giving dist(x,\partial D)^{\alpha/2} order
decay for harmonic functions near the boundary. These inequalities are
generalizations of the known results for the homogeneous case on C^{1,1} open
sets. We also prove the boundary Harnack inequality for regional fractional
Laplacian on Lipschitz domain.
  A group is just non-Dedekind (JND) if it is not a Dedekind group but all of
whose proper homomorphic images are Dedekind groups. The aim of the paper is to
classify finite JND-groups.
  The main purpose of this work is to develop the basic notions of the Lie
theory for commutative algebras. We introduce a class of $\mathbbZ_2$-graded
commutative but not associative algebras that we call ``Lie antialgebras''.
These algebras are closely related to Lie (super)algebras and, in some sense,
link together commutative and Lie algebras. The main notions we define in this
paper are: representations of Lie antialgebras, an analog of the Lie-Poisson
bivector (which is not Poisson) and central extensions. We also classify simple
finite-dimensional Lie antialgebras.
  By means of a multi-scale analysis we describe the typical geometrical
structure of the clusters under the FK measure in random media. Our result
holds in any dimension greater or equal to 2 provided that slab percolation
occurs under the averaged measure, which should be the case in the whole
supercritical phase. This work extends the one of Pisztora and provides an
essential tool for the analysis of the supercritical regime in disordered FK
models and in the corresponding disordered Ising and Potts models.
  For the complex Clifford algebra Cl(p,q) of dimension n=p+q we define a
Hermitian scalar product. This scalar product depends on the signature (p,q) of
Clifford algebra. So, we arrive at unitary spaces on Clifford algebras. With
the aid of Hermitian idempotents we suggest a new construction of, so called,
normal matrix representations of Clifford algebra elements. These
representations take into account the structure of unitary space on Clifford
algebra.
  This note relates topics in statistical mechanics, graph theory and
combinatorics, lattice quantum field theory, super quantum mechanics and string
theory. We give a precise relation between the dimer model on a graph embedded
on a torus and the massless free Majorana fermion living on the same lattice. A
loop expansion of the fermion determinant is performed, where the loops turn
out to be compositions of two perfect matchings. These loop states are sorted
into co-chain groups using categorification techniques similar to the ones used
for categorifying knot polynomials. The Euler characteristic of the resulting
co-chain complex recovers the Newton polynomial of the dimer model. We
re-interpret this system as supersymmetric quantum mechanics, where
configurations with vanishing net winding number form the ground states.
Finally, we make use of the quiver gauge theory - dimer model correspondence to
obtain an interpretation of the loops in terms of the physics of D-branes
probing a toric Calabi-Yau singularity.
  We prove that the Drinfeld halfspace is essentially the only Deligne-Lusztig
variety which is at the same time a period domain over a finite field. This is
done by comparing a cohomology vanishing theorem for DL-varieties, due to
Digne, Michel, and Rouquier, with a non-vanishing theorem for PD, due to the
first author. We also discuss an affineness criterion for DL-varieties.
  We give a more comrehensive treatment of Chen's double sieve and improve
related constants in Goldbach's conjecture and the twin prime problem.
  Noether-Lefschetz divisors in the moduli of K3 surfaces are the loci
corresponding to Picard rank at least 2. We relate the degrees of the
Noether-Lefschetz divisors in 1-parameter families of K3 surfaces to the
Gromov-Witten theory of the 3-fold total space. The reduced K3 theory and the
Yau-Zaslow formula play an important role. We use results of Borcherds and
Kudla-Millson for O(2,19) lattices to determine the Noether-Lefschetz degrees
in classical families of K3 surfaces of degrees 2, 4, 6 and 8. For the quartic
K3 surfaces, the Noether-Lefschetz degrees are proven to be the Fourier
coefficients of an explicitly computed modular form of weight 21/2 and level 8.
The interplay with mirror symmetry is discussed. We close with a conjecture on
the Picard ranks of moduli spaces of K3 surfaces.
  Suppose $[\mu]_{T(\Delta)}$ is a point of the universal Teichm\"uller space
$T(\Delta)$. In 1998, it was shown by Bo\v{z}in et al. that there exists $\mu$
such that $\mu$ has non-constant modulus and is uniquely extremal in
$[\mu]_{T(\Delta)}$. It is a natural problem whether there is always an
extremal Beltrmai coefficient of constant modulus in $[\mu]_{T(\Delta)}$ if
$[\mu]_{T(\Delta)}$ admits more than one extremal Beltrami coefficient. The
purpose of this paper is to show that the answer is negative. An infinitesimal
version is also obtained. Extremal sets of extremal Beltrami coefficients are
considered and an open problem is proposed.
  We find an improved estimate of the radius of analyticity of the pressure of
the hard-sphere gas in $d$ dimensions. The estimates are determined by the
volume of multidimensional regions that can be numerically computed. For $d=2$,
for instance, our estimate is about 40% larger than the classical one.
  We characterize the capacity of the general class of noncoherent underspread
wide-sense stationary uncorrelated scattering (WSSUS) time-frequency-selective
Rayleigh fading channels, under peak constraints in time and frequency and in
time only. Capacity upper and lower bounds are found which are explicit in the
channel's scattering function and allow to identify the capacity-maximizing
bandwidth for a given scattering function and a given peak-to-average power
ratio.
  In this paper we consider the following form of the so-called Mean field
equation arising from the statistical mechanics description of two dimensional
turbulence \begin{equation}\label{eq:study} - \D_g u = \rho_1
  (\frac{e^{u}}{\int_\Sig e^{u} dV_g}-1)-\rho_2
  (\frac{e^{-u}}{\int_\Sig e^{-u} dV_g} - 1) \end{equation} on a given closed
orientable Riemannian surface ($\Sigma, g$) with volume 1, where $\rho_1,
\rho_2$ are real parameters. Exploiting the variational structure of the
problem and running a min-max scheme introduced by Djadli and Malchiodi, we
prove that if $k$ is a positive integer, $\rho_1$ and
  $\rho_2$ two real numbers such that $\rho_1\in (8k\pi, 8(k+1)\pi)$ and
$\rho_2<4\pi$ then $\eqref{eq:study}$ is solvable.
  For \alpha in the interval [0,1], we consider the one-parameter family of
\alpha-continued fraction maps, which include the Gauss map (\alpha=1) and the
nearest integer (\alpha=1/2) and by-excess (\alpha=0) continued fraction maps.
To each of these expansions, and to each choice of a positive function u on the
interval I_\alpha=(0,max(\alpha,1-\alpha)) we associate a generalized Brjuno
function B_(\alpha,u)(x). For \alpha=1/2 or \alpha=1, and u(x)=-\log(x), these
functions were introduced by Yoccoz in his work on the linearization of
holomorphic maps. Their regularity properties, including BMO regularity and
their extension to the complex plane, have been thoroughly investigated. We
compare the functions obtained with different values of \alpha and we prove
that the set of (\alpha,u)-Brjuno numbers does not depend on the choice of
\alpha provided that \alpha>0. We then consider the case \alpha=0,
u(x)=-\log(x) and we prove that x is a Brjuno number (for \alpha> 0) if and
only if both x and -x are Brjuno numbers for \alpha=0.
  We consider modifications of the classical dbar-Neumann conditions that
define Fredholm problems for the Spin_C Dirac operator. In part II, we use
boundary layer methods to obtain subelliptic estimates for these boundary value
problems. Using these results, we obtain an expression for the finite part of
the holomorphic Euler characteristic of a strictly pseudoconvex manifold as the
index of a Spin_C-Dirac operator with a subelliptic boundary condition. We also
prove an analogue of the Agranovich-Dynin formula expressing the change in the
index in terms of a relative index on the boundary. If X is a complex manifold
partitioned by a strictly pseudoconvex hypersurface, then we obtain formulae
for the holomorphic Euler characteristic of X as sums of indices of
Spin_C-Dirac operators on the components. This is a subelliptic analogue of
Bojarski's formula in the elliptic case.
  By the geometric Satake correspondence, the number of components of certain
fibres of the affine Grassmannian convolution morphism equals the tensor
product multiplicity for representations of the Langlands dual group. On the
other hand, in the case of GL_n, combinatorial objects called hives also count
tensor product multiplicities. The purpose of this paper is to give a simple
bijection between hives and the components of these fibres. In particular, we
give a description of the individual components. We also describe a conjectural
generalization involving the octahedron recurrence.
  We assume that the manifold with boundary, X, has a Spin_C-structure with
spinor bundle S. Along the boundary, this structure agrees with the structure
defined by an infinite order integrable almost complex structure and the metric
is Kahler. The induced CR-structure on bX is integrable and either strictly
pseudoconvex or strictly pseudoconcave. We assume that E->X is a complex vector
bundle, which has an infinite order integrable complex structure along bX,
compatible with that defined along bX. In this paper use boundary layer methods
to prove subelliptic estimates for the twisted Spin_C- Dirac operator acting on
sections on S\otimes E. We use boundary conditions that are modifications of
the classical dbar-Neumann condition. These results are proved by using the
extended Heisenberg calculus.
  For sample covariance matrices with iid entries with sub-Gaussian tails, when
both the number of samples and the number of variables become large and the
ratio approaches to one, it is a well-known result of A. Soshnikov that the
limiting distribution of the largest eigenvalue is same as the of Gaussian
samples. In this paper, we extend this result to two cases. The first case is
when the ratio approaches to an arbitrary finite value. The second case is when
the ratio becomes infinity or arbitrarily small.
  In this paper we build on the framework developed in "Subelliptic Boundary
Value Problems for the Spin_C Dirac Operator, I, II, III" to obtain a more
complete understanding of the gluing properties for indices of boundary value
problems for the SpinC-Dirac operator with sub-elliptic boundary conditions. We
extend our analytic results for sub-elliptic boundary value problems for the
SpinC-Dirac operator, and gluing results for the indices of these boundary
problems to SpinC-manifolds with several pseudoconvex (pseudoconcave) boundary
components. These results are applied to study Stein fillability for compact,
3-dimensional, contact manifolds.
  We prove that a Bers slice is never algebraic, meaning that its Zariski
closure in the character variety has strictly larger dimension. A corollary is
that skinning maps are never constant.
  The proof uses grafting and the theory of complex projective structures.
  We consider the Anderson model on the multi-dimensional cubic lattice and
prove a positive lower bound on the density of states under certain conditions.
For example, if the random variables are independently and identically
distributed and the probability measure has a bounded Lebesgue density with
compact support, and if this density is essentially bounded away from zero on
its support, then we prove that the density of states is strictly positive for
Lebesgue-almost every energy in the deterministic spectrum.
  Suppose we want to find the eigenvalues and eigenvectors for the linear
operator L, and suppose that we have solved this problem for some other
"nearby" operator K. In this paper we show how to represent the eigenvalues and
eigenvectors of L in terms of the corresponding properties of K.
  We show that Fourier transforms on the Weyl algebras have a geometric
counterpart in the framework of toric varieties, namely they induce
isomorphisms between twisted rings of differential operators on regular toric
varieties, whose fans are related to each other by reflections of
one-dimensional cones. The simplest class of examples is provided by the toric
varieties related by such reflections to projective spaces. It includes the
blow-up at a point in affine space and resolution of singularities of varieties
appearing in the study of the minimal orbit of sl(n+1).
  We demonstrate the equivalence between the two popular models of nonlinear
diffusion, the porous medium equation and the p-Laplacian equation. The
equivalence is shown at the level of selfsimilar solutions.
  In this article, we prove that if $\Pi: X\to \Omega$ is a surjective
holomorphic map, with $\Omega$ a Stein space and $X$ a complex manifold of
dimension $n\geq 3,$ and if, for every $x\in \Omega$ there exists an open
neighborhood $U$ such that $\Pi^{-1}(U)$ is Stein, then $X$ is Stein
  I gave a geometric proof of Vojta's 1 + epsilon conjecture.
  Some gaps in the published paper were spotted and kindly pointed out to me by
Paul Vojta. These were addressed in "Erratum".
  We use functoriality of tropicalization and the geometry of projections of
subvarieties of tori to show that the fibers of the tropicalization map are
dense in the Zariski topology. For subvarieties of tori over fields of
generalized power series, points in each tropical fiber are obtained
"constructively" using Kedlaya's transfinite version of Newton's method.
  We provide here a modest improvement upon a large sieve inequality for
quadratic polynomial amplitudes orginally due to Liangyi Zhao.
  We study the nonlinearity of functions defined on a finite field with 2^m
elements which are the trace of a polynomial of degree 7 or more general
polynomials. We show that for m odd such functions have rather good
nonlinearity properties. We use for that recent results of Maisner and Nart
about zeta functions of supersingular curves of genus 2. We give some criterion
for a vectorial function not to be almost perfect nonlinear.
  We investigate the spectral theory of the invariant Landau Hamiltonian
$\La^\nu$ acting on the space ${\mathcal{F}}^\nu_{\Gamma,\chi}$ of
$(\Gamma,\chi)$-automotphic functions on $\C^n$, for given real number $\nu>0$,
lattice $\Gamma$ of $\C^n$ and a map $\chi:\Gamma\to U(1)$ such that the
triplet $(\nu,\Gamma,\chi)$ satisfies a Riemann-Dirac quantization type
condition. More precisely, we show that the eigenspace $
{\mathcal{E}}^\nu_{\Gamma,\chi}(\lambda)=\set{f\in
{\mathcal{F}}^\nu_{\Gamma,\chi}; \La^\nu f = \nu(2\lambda+n) f}$;
$\lambda\in\C,$ is non trivial if and only if $\lambda=l=0,1,2, ...$. In such
case, ${\mathcal{E}}^\nu_{\Gamma,\chi}(l)$ is a finite dimensional vector space
whose the dimension is given explicitly. We show also that the eigenspace
${\mathcal{E}}^\nu_{\Gamma,\chi}(0)$ associated to the lowest Landau level of
$\La^\nu$ is isomorphic to the space, ${\mathcal{O}}^\nu_{\Gamma,\chi}(\C^n)$,
of holomorphic functions on $\C^n$ satisfying $$ g(z+\gamma) = \chi(\gamma)
e^{\frac \nu 2 |\gamma|^2+\nu\scal{z,\gamma}}g(z), \eqno{(*)} $$ that we can
realize also as the null space of the differential operator
$\sum\limits_{j=1}\limits^n(\frac{-\partial^2}{\partial z_j\partial \bar z_j} +
\nu \bar z_j \frac{\partial}{\partial \bar z_j})$ acting on $\mathcal C^\infty$
functions on $\C^n$ satisfying $(*)$.
  We consider estimation procedures which are recursive in the sense that each
successive estimator is obtained from the previous one by a simple adjustment.
We propose a wide class of recursive estimation procedures for the general
statistical model and study convergence.
  We consider estimation procedures which are recursive in the sense that each
successive estimator is obtained from the previous one by a simple adjustment.
We study rate of convergence of recursive estimation procedures for the general
statistical model.
  The paper focuses on discrete-type approximations of solutions to
non-homogeneous stochastic differential equations (SDEs) involving fractional
Brownian motion (fBm). We prove that the rate of convergence for Euler
approximations of solutions of pathwise SDEs driven by fBm with Hurst index
$H>1/2$ can be estimated by $O(\delta^{2H-1})$ ($\delta$ is the diameter of
partition). For discrete-time approximations of Skorohod-type quasilinear
equation driven by fBm we prove that the rate of convergence is $O(\delta^H)$.
  We investigate integrable second order equations of the form
  F(u_{xx}, u_{xy}, u_{yy}, u_{xt}, u_{yt}, u_{tt})=0.
  Familiar examples include the Boyer-Finley equation, the potential form of
the dispersionless Kadomtsev-Petviashvili equation, the dispersionless Hirota
equation, etc. The integrability is understood as the existence of infinitely
many hydrodynamic reductions. We demonstrate that the natural equivalence group
of the problem is isomorphic to Sp(6), revealing a remarkable correspondence
between differential equations of the above type and hypersurfaces of the
Lagrangian Grassmannian. We prove that the moduli space of integrable equations
of the dispersionless Hirota type is 21-dimensional, and the action of the
equivalence group Sp(6) on the moduli space has an open orbit.
  Motivated by a class of orbit problems in astrophysics, this paper considers
solutions to Hill's equation with forcing strength parameters that vary from
cycle to cycle. The results are generalized to include period variations from
cycle to cycle. The development of the solutions to the differential equation
is governed by a discrete map. For the general case of Hill's equation in the
unstable limit, we consider separately the case of purely positive matrix
elements and those with mixed signs; we then find exact expressions, bounds,
and working estimates for the growth rates. We also find exact expressions,
estimates, and bounds for the infinite products of several $2 \times 2$
matrices with random variables in the matrix elements. In the limit of sharply
spiked forcing terms (the delta function limit), we find analytic solutions for
each cycle and for the discrete map that matches solutions from cycle to cycle;
for this case we find the growth rates and the condition for instability in the
limit of large forcing strength, as well as the widths of the stable/unstable
zones.
  We consider estimation procedures which are recursive in the sense that each
successive estimator is obtained from the previous one by a simple adjustment.
The model considered in the paper is very general as we do not impose any
preliminary restrictions on the probabilistic nature of the observation process
and cover a wide class of nonlinear recursive procedures. In this paper we
study asymptotic behaviour of the recursive estimators. The results of the
paper can be used to determine the form of a recursive procedure which is
expected to have the same asymptotic properties as the corresponding
non-recursive one defined as a solution of the corresponding estimating
equation.
  The choice of a star product realization for noncommutative field theory can
be regarded as a gauge choice in the space of all equivalent star products.
With the goal of having a gauge invariant treatment, we develop tools, such as
integration measures and covariant derivatives on this space. The covariant
derivative can be expressed in terms of connections in the usual way giving
rise to new degrees of freedom for noncommutative theories.
  An overview of game-theoretic approaches to energy-efficient resource
allocation in wireless networks is presented. Focusing on multiple-access
networks, it is demonstrated that game theory can be used as an effective tool
to study resource allocation in wireless networks with quality-of-service (QoS)
constraints. A family of non-cooperative (distributed) games is presented in
which each user seeks to choose a strategy that maximizes its own utility while
satisfying its QoS requirements. The utility function considered here measures
the number of reliable bits that are transmitted per joule of energy consumed
and, hence, is particulary suitable for energy-constrained networks. The
actions available to each user in trying to maximize its own utility are at
least the choice of the transmit power and, depending on the situation, the
user may also be able to choose its transmission rate, modulation, packet size,
multiuser receiver, multi-antenna processing algorithm, or carrier allocation
strategy. The best-response strategy and Nash equilibrium for each game is
presented. Using this game-theoretic framework, the effects of power control,
rate control, modulation, temporal and spatial signal processing, carrier
allocation strategy and delay QoS constraints on energy efficiency and network
capacity are quantified.
  A game-theoretic framework is used to study the effect of constellation size
on the energy efficiency of wireless networks for M-QAM modulation. A
non-cooperative game is proposed in which each user seeks to choose its
transmit power (and possibly transmit symbol rate) as well as the constellation
size in order to maximize its own utility while satisfying its delay
quality-of-service (QoS) constraint. The utility function used here measures
the number of reliable bits transmitted per joule of energy consumed, and is
particularly suitable for energy-constrained networks. The best-response
strategies and Nash equilibrium solution for the proposed game are derived. It
is shown that in order to maximize its utility (in bits per joule), a user must
choose the lowest constellation size that can accommodate the user's delay
constraint. This strategy is different from one that would maximize spectral
efficiency. Using this framework, the tradeoffs among energy efficiency, delay,
throughput and constellation size are also studied and quantified. In addition,
the effect of trellis-coded modulation on energy efficiency is discussed.
  We consider the level of information security provided by random linear
network coding in network scenarios in which all nodes comply with the
communication protocols yet are assumed to be potential eavesdroppers (i.e.
"nice but curious"). For this setup, which differs from wiretapping scenarios
considered previously, we develop a natural algebraic security criterion, and
prove several of its key properties. A preliminary analysis of the impact of
network topology on the overall network coding security, in particular for
complete directed acyclic graphs, is also included.
  This survey paper begins with the description of the duality between arc
systems and ribbon graphs embedded in a punctured surface. Then we explain how
to cellularize the moduli space of curves in two different ways: using
Jenkins-Strebel differentials and using hyperbolic geometry. We also briefly
discuss how these two methods are related. Next, we recall the definition of
Witten cycles and we illustrate their connection with tautological classes and
Weil-Petersson geometry. Finally, we exhibit a simple direct argument to prove
that Witten classes are stable.
  The semimartingale stochastic approximation procedure, namely, the
Robbins-Monro type SDE is introduced which naturally includes both generalized
stochastic approximation algorithms with martingale noises and recursive
parameter estimation procedures for statistical models associated with
semimartingales. General results concerning the asymptotic behaviour of the
solution are presented. In particular, the conditions ensuring the convergence,
rate of convergence and asymptotic expansion are established. The results
concerning the Polyak weighted averaging procedure are also presented.
  This article of mathematical education reflects author's experience with job
applications and teaching methods and procedures to employ in the American
Higher Education. It is organized as a standard questionnaire.
  A transversal in a rooted tree is any set of nodes that meets every path from
the root to a leaf. We let c(T,k) denote the number of transversals of size k
in a rooted tree T. We define a partial order on the set of all rooted trees
with n nodes by saying that a tree T succeeds a tree T' if c(T,k) is at least
c(T',k) for all k and strictly greater than c(T',k) for at least one k. We
prove that, for every choice of positive integers d and n, the set of all
rooted trees on n nodes where each node has at most d children has a unique
minimal element with respect to this partial order and we describe this tree.
  Let $R$ be a local Gorenstein ring with infinite residue field of arbitrary
characteristic. Let $I$ be an $R$--ideal with $g=\height I >0$, analytic spread
$\ell$, and let $J$ be a minimal reduction of $I$. We further assume that $I$
satisfies $G_{\ell}$ and ${\depth}
  R/I^j \geq \dim R/I -j+1$ for $1 \leq j \leq \ell-g$. The question we are
interested in is whether $\core{I}=J^{n+1}:\ds \sum_{b \in I} (J,b)^n$ for $n
\gg 0$. In the case of analytic spread one Polini and Ulrich show that this is
true with even weaker assumptions (\cite[Theorem 3.4]{PU}). We give a negative
answer to this question for higher analytic spreads and suggest a formula for
the core of such ideals.
  We will first establish an index theory for linear self-adjoint operator
equations. And then with the help of this index theory we will discuss
existence and multiplicity of solutions for asymptotically linear operator
equations by making use of the dual variational methods and Morse theory.
Finally, some interesting examples concerning second order Hamiltonian systems,
first order Hamiltonian systems and elliptical partial differential equations
will be presented to illustrate our results.
  We introduce the Cauchy augmentation operator for basic hypergeometric
series. Heine's ${}_2\phi_1$ transformation formula and Sears' ${}_3\phi_2$
transformation formula can be easily obtained by the symmetric property of some
parameters in operator identities. The Cauchy operator involves two parameters,
and it can be considered as a generalization of the operator $T(bD_q)$. Using
this operator, we obtain extensions of the Askey-Wilson integral, the Askey-Roy
integral, Sears' two-term summation formula, as well as the $q$-analogues of
Barnes' lemmas. Finally, we find that the Cauchy operator is also suitable for
the study of the bivariate Rogers-Szeg\"o polynomials, or the continuous big
$q$-Hermite polynomials.
  In this paper, we establish the existence of periodic orbits of a twisted
geodesic flow on all low energy levels and in all dimensions whenever the
magnetic field form is symplectic and spherically rational. This is a
consequence of a more general theorem concerning periodic orbits of autonomous
Hamiltonian flows near Morse-Bott non-degenerate, symplectic extrema. Namely,
we show that all energy levels near such extrema carry periodic orbits,
provided that the ambient manifold meets certain topological requirements. This
result is a partial generalization of the Weinstein-Moser theorem. The proof of
the generalized Weinstein-Moser theorem is a combination of a Sturm-theoretic
argument and a Floer homology calculation.
  In this paper we discuss new types of differential equations which we call
anticipated backward stochastic differential equations (anticipated BSDEs). In
these equations the generator includes not only the values of solutions of the
present but also the future. We show that these anticipated BSDEs have unique
solutions, a comparison theorem for their solutions, and a duality between them
and stochastic differential delay equations.
  Given a partially ordered set $P$ there exists the most general Boolean
algebra $F(P)$ which contains $P$ as a generating set, called the {\it free
Boolean algebra} over $P$. We study free Boolean algebras over posets of the
form $P=P_0\cup P_1$, where $P_0,P_1$ are well orderings. We call them {\it
nearly ordinal algebras}.
  Answering a question of Maurice Pouzet, we show that for every uncountable
cardinal $\kappa$ there are $2^\kappa$ pairwise non-isomorphic nearly ordinal
algebras of cardinality $\kappa$.
  Topologically, free Boolean algebras over posets correspond to compact
0-dimensional distributive lattices. In this context, we classify all closed
sublattices of the product $(\omega_1+1)\times(\omega_1+1)$, thus showing that
there are only $\aleph_1$ many of them. In contrast with the last result, we
show that there are $2^{\aleph_1}$ topological types of closed subsets of the
Tikhonov plank $(\omega_1+1)\times(\omega+1)$.
  We define and study the (minimal) Radon transform on a real symmetric
variety.
  The blow-up rate estimate for the solution to a semilinear parabolic equation
$u_t=\Delta u+V(x) |u|^{p-1}u$ in $\Omega \times (0,T)$ with 0-Dirichlet
boundary condition is obtained. As an application, it is shown that the
asymptotic behavior of blow-up time and blow-up set of the problem with
nonnegative initial data $u(x,0)=M\vf (x)$ as $M$ goes to infinity, which have
been found in \cite{cer}, are improved under some reasonable and weaker
conditions compared with \cite{cer}.
  We remark on the Garnier system in two variables.
  We describe some theoretical results on triangulations of surfaces and we
develop a theory on roots, decompositions and genus-surfaces. We apply this
theory to describe an algorithm to list all triangulations of closed surfaces
with at most a fixed number of vertices. We specialize the theory for the case
where the number of vertices is at most 11 and we get theoretical restrictions
on genus-surfaces allowing us to get the list of triangulations of closed
surfaces with at most 11 vertices.
  Let $S$ be a surface of finite type which is not a sphere with at most four
punctures, a torus with at most two punctures, or a closed surface of genus
two. Let $\mathcal{MF}$ be the space of equivalence classes of measured
foliations of compact support on $S$ and let $\mathcal{UMF}$ be the quotient
space of $\mathcal{MF}$ obtained by identifying two equivalence classes
whenever they can be represented by topologically equivalent foliations, that
is, forgetting the transverse measure. The extended mapping class group
$\Gamma^*$ of $S$ acts as by homeomorphisms of $\mathcal{UMF}$. We show that
the restriction of the action of the whole homeomorphism group of
$\mathcal{UMF}$ on some dense subset of $\mathcal{UMF}$ coincides with the
action of $\Gamma^*$ on that subset. More precisely, let $\mathcal{D}$ be the
natural image in $\mathcal{UMF}$ of the set of homotopy classes of not
necessarily connected essential disjoint and pairwise nonhomotopic simple
closed curves on $S$. The set $\mathcal{D}$ is dense in $\mathcal{UMF}$, it is
invariant by the action of $\Gamma^*$ on $\mathcal{UMF}$ and the restriction of
the action of $\Gamma^*$ on $\mathcal{D}$ is faithful. We prove that the
restriction of the action on $\mathcal{D}$ of the group
$\mathrm{Homeo}(\mathcal{UMF})$ coincides with the action of $\Gamma^*(S)$ on
that subspace.
  Let S be a standard N^r-graded algebra over a local ring A, and let M be a
finitely generated Z^r-graded S-module. We characterize the Cohen-Macaulayness
of M in terms of the vanishing of certain sheaf cohomology modules. As a
consequence, we apply our result to study the Cohen-Macaulayness of multi-Rees
modules (also called Rees modification). Our work extends previous studies on
the Cohen-Macaulayness of multi-Rees algebras.
  A first-order theory has the Schroder-Bernstein property if any two of its
models that are elementarily bi-embeddable are isomorphic. We prove that if a
countable theory T has the Schroder-Bernstein property then it is classifiable
(it is superstable and has NDOP and NOTOP) and satisfies a slightly stronger
condition than nonmultidimensionality, namely: there cannot be a model M of T,
a type p over M, and an automorphism f of M such that for every two distinct
natural numbers i and j, f^i(p) is orthogonal to f^j(p). We also make some
conjectures about how the class of theories with the Schroder-Bernstein
property can be characterized.
  A first-order theory has the Schroder-Bernstein property if any two of its
models that are elementarily bi-embeddable are isomorphic. We prove that if G
is an abelian group, then the follwing are equivalent:
  1. Th(G, +) has the Schroder-Bernstein property;
  2. Th(G, +) is omega-stable;
  3. G is the direct sum of a divisible group and a torsion group of bounded
exponent;
  4. Th(G, +) is superstable, and if (H, +) is a saturated elementary extension
of (G,+), every map in Aut(H/H^0) is unipotent.
  We consider the Riemann Mapping Theorem in the case of a bounded simply
connected and semianalytic domain. We show that the germ at 0 of the Riemann
map (i.e. biholomorphic map) from the upper half plane to such a domain can be
realized in a certain quasianalytic class if the angle of the boundary at the
point to which 0 is mapped, is greater than 0. This quasianalytic class was
introduced and used by Ilyashenko in his work on Hilbert's 16th problem. With
this result we can prove that the Riemann map from a bounded simply connected
semianalytic domain onto the unit ball is definable in an o-minimal structure,
provided that at singular boundary points the angles of the boundary are
irrational multiples of $\pi$.
  We prove that the chordal SLE$_\kappa$ trace is reversible for
$\kappa\in(0,4]$.
  This paper presents hyperbolic rank rigidity results for rank 1,
nonpositively curved spaces. Let $M$ be a compact, rank 1 manifold with
nonpositive sectional curvature and suppose that along every geodesic in $M$
there is a parallel vector field making curvature $-a^2$ with the geodesic
direction. We prove that $M$ has constant curvature equal to $-a^2$ if $M$ is
odd dimensional, or if $M$ is even dimensional and has sectional curvature
pinched as follows: $-\Lambda^2 < K < -\lambda^2$ where $\lambda/\Lambda >
>.93$. When $-a^2$ is the upper curvature bound this gives a shorter proof of
the hyperbolic rank rigidity theorem of Hamenst\"{a}dt, subject to the pinching
condition in even dimension; in all other cases it is a new result. We also
present a rigidity result using only an assumption on maximal Lyapunov
exponents in direct analogy with work done by Connell. The proof of the main
theorem is simplified considerably by assuming strict negative curvature; in
fact, in all dimensions but 7 and 8 it is then an immediate consequence of
ergodicity of the $(dim(M)-1)$-frame flow. In these exceptional dimensions,
recourse to the dynamics of the 2-frame flow must be made and the scheme of
proof developed there can be generalized to deal with rank 1, nonpositively
curved spaces.
  Results of a multipart work are outlined. Use is made therein of the
conjunction of the Riemann hypothesis, RH, and hypotheses advanced by the
author. Let z(n) be the nth nonreal zero of the Riemann zeta-function with
positive imaginary part in order of magnitude thereof. A relation is obtained,
of the pair z(n) and the first derivative thereat of the zeta-function, to the
preceding such pairs and the values of zeta at the points one-half plus a
nonnegative multiple of four. That relation is derived from two forms of the
density of the Laplace representation, on a certain vertical strip, of a
meromorphic function constructed from zeta. Specific functions which play a
central role therein are proven to have analytic extensions to the entire
complex plane. It is established that the Laplace density is positive. That
positivity implies RH and that each nonreal zero of zeta is simple. A metric
geometry expression of the positivity of the density is derived. An analogous
context is delineated relative to Dirichlet L-functions and the Ramanujan tau
Dirichlet function.
  We establish existence and various estimates of fundamental matrices and
Green's matrices for divergence form, second order strongly parabolic systems
in arbitrary cylindrical domains under the assumption that solutions of the
systems satisfy an interior H\"{o}lder continuity estimate. We present a
unified approach valid for both the scalar and the vectorial cases.
  We consider a piecewise-deterministic Markov process governed by a jump
intensity function, a rate function that determines the behaviour between
jumps, and a stochastic kernel describing the conditional distribution of jump
sizes. We study the point process of upcrossings of a level $b$ by the Markov
process. Our main result shows that, under a suitable scaling $\nu(b)$, the
point process converges, as $b$ tends to infinity, weakly to a geometrically
compound Poisson process. We also prove a version of Rice's formula relating
the stationary density of the process to level crossing intensities. This
formula provides an interpretation of the scaling factor $\nu(b)$. While our
proof of the limit theorem requires additional assumptions, Rice's formula
holds whenever the (stationary) overall intensity of jumps is finite.
  We investigate the degree of the polar transformations associated to a
certain class of multi-valued homogeneous functions. In particular we prove
that the degree of the pre-image of generic linear spaces by a polar
transformation associated to a homogeneous polynomial $F$ is determined by the
zero locus of $F$. For zero dimensional-dimensional linear spaces this was
conjecture by Dolgachev and proved by Dimca-Papadima using topological
arguments. Our methods are algebro-geometric and rely on the study of the Gauss
map of naturally associated logarithmic foliations.
  We develop a criterion for transience for a general model of branching Markov
chains. In the case of multi-dimensional branching random walk in random
environment (BRWRE) this criterion becomes explicit. In particular, we show
that \emph{Condition L} of Comets and Popov is necessary and sufficient for
transience as conjectured. Furthermore, the criterion applies to two important
classes of branching random walks and implies that the critical branching
random walk is transient resp. dies out locally.
  We study the possible structure of the groups of rational points on elliptic
curves of the form y^2=(ax+1)(bx+1)(cx+1), where a,b,c are non-zero rationals
such that the product of any two of them is one less than a square.
  We extend our recent work on set-theoretic solutions of the Yang-Baxter or
braid relations with new results about their automorphism groups, strong
twisted unions of solutions and multipermutation solutions. We introduce and
study graphs of solutions and use our graphical methods for the computation of
solutions of finite order and their automorphisms. Results include a detailed
study of solutions of multipermutation level 2.
  The first part of the paper gives a new proof of self-duality for Selmer
groups: if A is an abelian variety over a number field K, and F/K is a Galois
extension with Galois group G, then the Q_pG-representation naturally
associated to the p-infinity Selmer group of A/F is self-dual. The second part
describes a method for obtaining information about parities of Selmer ranks
from the local Tamagawa numbers of A in intermediate extensions of F/K.
  Hall drift, i. e., transport of magnetic flux by the moving electrons giving
rise to the electrical current, may be the dominant effect causing the
evolution of the magnetic field in the solid crust of neutron stars. It is a
nonlinear process that, despite a number of efforts, is still not fully
understood. We use the Hall induction equation in axial symmetry to obtain some
general properties of nonevolving fields, as well as analyzing the evolution of
purely toroidal fields, their poloidal perturbations, and current-free, purely
poloidal fields. We also analyze energy conservation in Hall instabilities and
write down a variational principle for Hall equilibria. We show that the
evolution of any toroidal magnetic field can be described by Burgers' equation,
as previously found in plane-parallel geometry. It leads to sharp current
sheets that dissipate on the Hall time scale, yielding a stationary field
configuration that depends on a single, suitably defined coordinate. This
field, however, is unstable to poloidal perturbations, which grow as their
field lines are stretched by the background electron flow, as in instabilities
earlier found numerically. On the other hand, current-free poloidal
configurations are stable and could represent a long-lived crustal field
supported by currents in the fluid stellar core.
  Three new models with V-shaped field potentials $U$ are considered: a complex
scalar field $X$ in 1+1 dimensions with $U(X)= |X|$, a real scalar field $\Phi$
in 2+1 dimensions with $U(\Phi) = |\Phi|$, and a real scalar field $\phi$ in
1+1 dimensions with $U{\phi) = \phi \Theta(\phi)$ where $\Theta$ is the step
function. Several explicit, self-similar solutions are found. They describe
interesting dynamical processes, for example, `freezing' a string in a static
configuration.
  Finite dimensional matrices having more columns than rows have no left
inverses while those having more rows than columns have no right inverses. We
give generalizations of these simple facts to bi--infinite matrices and use
those to obtain density results for $p$--frames of time--frequency molecules in
modulation spaces and identifiability results for operators with bandlimited
Kohn--Nirenberg symbols.
  We associate with any simplicial complex $\K$ and any integer $m$ a system of
linear equations and inequalities. If $\K$ has a simplicial embedding in $\R^m$
then the system has an integer solution. This result extends the work of I.
Novik (2000).
  We derive a criterion on the measurability / identifiability of
Multiple--Input Multiple--Output (MIMO) channels based on the size of the
so-called spreading support of its subchannels. Novel MIMO transmission
techniques provide high-capacity communication channels in time-varying
environments and exact knowledge of the transmission channel operator is of key
importance when trying to transmit information at a rate close to channel
capacity.
  An information-theoretic approach is proposed to watermark embedding and
detection under limited detector resources. First, we consider the attack-free
scenario under which asymptotically optimal decision regions in the
Neyman-Pearson sense are proposed, along with the optimal embedding rule.
Later, we explore the case of zero-mean i.i.d. Gaussian covertext distribution
with unknown variance under the attack-free scenario. For this case, we propose
a lower bound on the exponential decay rate of the false-negative probability
and prove that the optimal embedding and detecting strategy is superior to the
customary linear, additive embedding strategy in the exponential sense.
Finally, these results are extended to the case of memoryless attacks and
general worst case attacks. Optimal decision regions and embedding rules are
offered, and the worst attack channel is identified.
  We analyze fading interference relay networks where M single-antenna
source-destination terminal pairs communicate concurrently and in the same
frequency band through a set of K single-antenna relays using half-duplex
two-hop relaying. Assuming that the relays have channel state information
(CSI), it is shown that in the large-M limit, provided K grows fast enough as a
function of M, the network "decouples" in the sense that the individual
source-destination terminal pair capacities are strictly positive. The
corresponding required rate of growth of K as a function of M is found to be
sufficient to also make the individual source-destination fading links converge
to nonfading links. We say that the network "crystallizes" as it breaks up into
a set of effectively isolated "wires in the air". A large-deviations analysis
is performed to characterize the "crystallization" rate, i.e., the rate (as a
function of M,K) at which the decoupled links converge to nonfading links. In
the course of this analysis, we develop a new technique for characterizing the
large-deviations behavior of certain sums of dependent random variables. For
the case of no CSI at the relay level, assuming amplify-and-forward relaying,
we compute the per source-destination terminal pair capacity for M,K converging
to infinity, with K/M staying fixed, using tools from large random matrix
theory.
  We investigate the Dirichlet solution for a semianalytic continuous function
on the boundary of a semianalytic bounded domain in the plane. We show that the
germ of the Dirichlet solution at a boundary point with angle greater than 0
lies in a certain quasianalytic class used by Ilyashenko in his work on
Hilbert's 16th problem. With this result we can prove that the Dirichlet
solution is definable in an o-minimal structure if the angle at a singular
boundary point of the domain is an irrational multiple of $\pi$.
  We present two approaches for linear prediction of long-memory time series.
The first approach consists in truncating the Wiener-Kolmogorov predictor by
restricting the observations to the last $k$ terms, which are the only
available values in practice. We derive the asymptotic behaviour of the
mean-squared error as $k$ tends to $ + \infty$. By contrast, the second
approach is non-parametric. An AR($k$) model is fitted to the long-memory time
series and we study the error that arises in this misspecified model.
  We show in detail how the Jordan-Wigner transformation can be used to
simulate any fermionic many-body Hamiltonian on a quantum computer. We develop
an algorithm based on appropriate qubit gates that takes a general fermionic
Hamiltonian, written as products of a given number of creation and annihilation
operators, as input. To demonstrate the applicability of the algorithm, we
calculate eigenvalues and eigenvectors of two model Hamiltonians, the
well-known Hubbard model and a generalized pairing Hamiltonian. Extensions to
other systems are discussed.
  Using conformal field theory, we derive several new crossing formulas at the
two-dimensional percolation point. High-precision simulation confirms these
results. Integrating them gives a unified derivation of Cardy's formula for the
horizontal crossing probability $\Pi_h(r)$, Watts' formula for the
horizontal-vertical crossing probability $\Pi_{hv}(r)$, and Cardy's formula for
the expected number of clusters crossing horizontally $\mathcal{N}_h(r)$. The
main step in our approach implies the identification of the derivative of one
primary operator with another. We present operator identities that support this
idea and suggest the presence of additional symmetry in $c=0$ conformal field
theories.
  The ideal of a Segre variety is generated by the 2-minors of a generic
hypermatrix of indeterminates. We extend this result to the case of
Segre-Veronese varieties. The main tool is the concept of weak generic
hypermatrix which allows us to treat also the case of projection of Veronese
surfaces from a set of generic points and of Veronese varieties from a
Cohen-Macaulay subvariety of codimension 2.
  Let $\A$ be a finite subdiagonal algebra in Arveson's sense. Let $H^p(\A)$ be
the associated noncommutative Hardy spaces, $0<p\le\8$. We extend to the case
of all positive indices most recent results about these spaces, which include
notably the Riesz, Szeg\"o and inner-outer type factorizations. One new tool of
the paper is the contractivity of the underlying conditional expectation on
$H^p(\A)$ for $p<1$.
  This paper studies the relationship between vector-valued BMO functions and
the Carleson measures defined by their gradients. Let $dA$ and $dm$ denote
Lebesgue measures on the unit disc $D$ and the unit circle $\mathbb T$,
respectively. For $1< q<\infty$ and a Banach space $B$ we prove that there
exists a positive constant $c$ such that
  $$\sup_{z_0\in D}\int_{D}(1-|z|)^{q-1}\|\nabla f(z)\|^q
  P_{z_0}(z) dA(z)
  \le c^q\sup_{z_0\in D}\int_{\T}\|f(z)-f(z_0)\|^qP_{z_0}(z) dm(z)$$ holds for
all trigonometric polynomials $f$ with coefficients in $B$ iff $B$ admits an
equivalent norm which is $q$-uniformly convex, where
  $$P_{z_0}(z)=\frac{1-|z_0|^2}{|1-\bar{z_0}z|^2} .$$ The validity of the
converse inequality is equivalent to the existence of an equivalent
$q$-uniformly smooth norm.
  We classify connected sums of three-dimensional lens spaces which smoothly
bound rational homology balls. We use this result to determine the order of
each lens space in the group of rational homology 3-spheres up to rational
homology cobordisms, and to determine the concordance order of each 2-bridge
knot.
  We describe in detail the history of Brownian motion, as well as the
contributions of Einstein, Sutherland, Smoluchowski, Bachelier, Perrin and
Langevin to its theory. The always topical importance in physics of the theory
of Brownian motion is illustrated by recent biophysical experiments, where it
serves, for instance, for the measurement of the pulling force on a single DNA
molecule.
  In a second part, we stress the mathematical importance of the theory of
Brownian motion, illustrated by two chosen examples. The by-now classic
representation of the Newtonian potential by Brownian motion is explained in an
elementary way. We conclude with the description of recent progress seen in the
geometry of the planar Brownian curve. At its heart lie the concepts of
conformal invariance and multifractality, associated with the potential theory
of the Brownian curve itself.
  We show norm estimates for the sum of independent random variables in
noncommutative $L_p$-spaces for $1<p<\infty$ following our previous work. These
estimates generalize the classical Rosenthal inequality in the commutative
case. Among applications, we derive an equivalence for the $p$-norm of the
singular values of a random matrix with independent entries, and characterize
those symmetric subspaces and unitary ideals which can be realized as subspaces
of a noncommutative $L_p$ for $2<p<\infty$.
  We prove that if nonlinear complex polynomials of the same degree have orbits
with infinite intersection, then the polynomials have a common iterate. We also
prove a special case of a conjectured dynamical analogue of the Mordell-Lang
conjecture.
  Graded $C^*$-algebras by a semi lattice were introduced and studied by Anne
Boutet de Monvel, Vladimir Georgescu and their collaborators in relation with
the quantum N body problem. This thesis is devoted to a systematic study of
these algebras and their properties. In particular, we show that they are
completely described by their homogenous subalgebras and that they are
invariant under several operations such as tensor products, crossed products
(by actions of locally compact groups that respect the graduation). We give the
$K$-theory of graded $C^*$-algebras and finally, we study some examples of such
algebras.
  In this article we build a Quillen model category structure on the category
of sequentially complete l.m.c.-C*-algebras such that the corresponding
homotopy classes of maps Ho(A,B) for separable C*-algebras A and B coincide
with the Kasparov groups KK(A,B). This answers an open question posed by Mark
Hovey about the possibility of describing KK-theory for C*-algebras using the
language of Quillen model categories.
  Let $X$ be a locally compact Hadamard space and $G$ be a totally disconnected
group acting continuously, properly and cocompactly on $X$. We show that a
closed subgroup of $G$ is amenable if and only if it is (topologically locally
finite)-by-(virtually abelian). We are led to consider a set $\bdfine X$ which
is a refinement of the visual boundary $\bd X$. For each $x \in \bdfine X$, the
stabilizer $G_x$ is amenable.
  The relation between Radon transform and orthogonal expansions of a function
on the unit ball in $\RR^d$ is exploited. A compact formula for the partial
sums of the expansion is given in terms of the Radon transform, which leads to
algorithms for image reconstruction from Radon data. The relation between
orthogonal expansion and the singular value decomposition of the Radon
transform is also exploited.
  The standard C*-algebraic version of the algebra of canonical commutation
relations, the Weyl algebra, frequently causes difficulties in applications
since it neither admits the formulation of physically interesting dynamical
laws nor does it incorporate pertinent physical observables such as (bounded
functions of) the Hamiltonian. Here a novel C*-algebra of the canonical
commutation relations is presented which does not suffer from such problems. It
is based on the resolvents of the canonical operators and their algebraic
relations. The resulting C*-algebra, the resolvent algebra, is shown to have
many desirable analytic properties and the regularity structure of its
representations is surprisingly simple. Moreover, the resolvent algebra is a
convenient framework for applications to interacting and to constrained quantum
systems, as we demonstrate by several examples.
  We consider the Zassenhaus conjecture for the normalized unit group of the
integral group ring of the Mathieu sporadic group $M_{24}$. As a consequence,
for this group we confirm Kimmerle's conjecture on prime graphs.
  Classical and quantum Hamiltonian reductions of free geodesic systems of
complete Riemannian manifolds are investigated. The reduced systems are
described under the assumption that the underlying compact symmetry group acts
in a polar manner in the sense that there exist regularly embedded, closed,
connected submanifolds meeting all orbits orthogonally in the configuration
space. Hyperpolar actions on Lie groups and on symmetric spaces lead to
families of integrable systems of spin Calogero-Sutherland type.
  The purpose of this paper is to determine the asymptotic of the average
energy of a configuration of N zeros of system of random polynomials of degree
N as N tends to infinity and more generally the zeros of random holomorphic
sections of a line bundle L over any Riemann surface M. And we compare our
results to the well-known minimum of energies.
  This paper addresses the performance of bit-interleaved coded multiple
beamforming (BICMB) [1], [2] with imperfect knowledge of beamforming vectors.
Most studies for limited-rate channel state information at the transmitter
(CSIT) assume that the precoding matrix has an invariance property under an
arbitrary unitary transform. In BICMB, this property does not hold. On the
other hand, the optimum precoder and detector for BICMB are invariant under a
diagonal unitary transform. In order to design a limited-rate CSIT system for
BICMB, we propose a new distortion measure optimum under this invariance. Based
on this new distortion measure, we introduce a new set of centroids and employ
the generalized Lloyd algorithm for codebook design. We provide simulation
results demonstrating the performance improvement achieved with the proposed
distortion measure and the codebook design for various receivers with linear
detectors. We show that although these receivers have the same performance for
perfect CSIT, their performance varies under imperfect CSIT.
  We prove an area law for the entanglement entropy in gapped one dimensional
quantum systems. The bound on the entropy grows surprisingly rapidly with the
correlation length; we discuss this in terms of properties of quantum expanders
and present a conjecture on completely positive maps which may provide an
alternate way of arriving at an area law. We also show that, for gapped, local
systems, the bound on Von Neumann entropy implies a bound on R\'{e}nyi entropy
for sufficiently large $\alpha<1$ and implies the ability to approximate the
ground state by a matrix product state.
  We construct a graph G such that any embedding of G into R^{3} contains a
nonsplit link of two components, where at least one of the components is a
nontrivial knot. Further, for any m < n we produce a graph H so that every
embedding of H contains a nonsplit n component link, where at least m of the
components are nontrivial knots.
  We then turn our attention to complete graphs and show that for any given n,
every embedding of a large enough complete graph contains a two component link
whose linking number is a nonzero multiple of n.
  The group E(3)=SO(3) *s T(3), that is the homogeneous subgroup of the Galilei
group parameterized by rotation angles and velocities, defines the continuous
group of transformations between the frames of inertial particles in Newtonian
mechanics. We show in this paper that the continuous group of transformations
between the frames of noninertial particles following trajectories that satisfy
Hamilton's equations is given by the Hamilton group Ha(3)=SO(3) *s H(3) where
H(3) is the Weyl-Heisenberg group that is parameterized by rates of change of
position, momentum and energy, i.e. velocity, force and power. The group E(3)
is the inertial special case of the Hamilton group.
  The operator-valued Schur-class is defined to be the set of holomorphic
functions $S$ mapping the unit disk into the space of contraction operators
between two Hilbert spaces. There are a number of alternate characterizations:
the operator of multiplication by $S$ defines a contraction operator between
two Hardy Hilbert spaces, $S$ satisfies a von Neumann inequality, a certain
operator-valued kernel associated with $S$ is positive-definite, and $S$ can be
realized as the transfer function of a dissipative (or even conservative)
discrete-time linear input/state/output linear system. Various multivariable
generalizations of this class have appeared recently,one of the most
encompassing being that of Muhly and Solel where the unit disk is replaced by
the strict unit ball of the elements of a dual correspondence $E^{\sigma}$
associated with a $W^{*}$-correspondence $E$ over a $W^{*}$-algebra $\cA$
together with a $*$-representation $\sigma$ of $\cA$. The main new point which
we add here is the introduction of the notion of reproducing kernel Hilbert
correspondence and identification of the Muhly-Solel Hardy spaces as
reproducing kernel Hilbert correspondences associated with a completely
positive analogue of the classical Szeg\"o kernel. In this way we are able to
make the analogy between the Muhly-Solel Schur class and the classical Schur
class more complete. We also illustrate the theory by specializing it to some
well-studied special cases; in some instances there result new kinds of
realization theorems.
  In this article we review the observation, due originally to Dwork, that the
zeta-function of an arithmetic variety, defined originally over the field with
p elements, is a superdeterminant. We review this observation in the context of
a one parameter family of quintic threefolds, and study the zeta-function as a
function of the parameter \phi. Owing to cancellations, the superdeterminant of
an infinite matrix reduces to the (ordinary) determinant of a finite matrix,
U(\phi), corresponding to the action of the Frobenius map on certain cohomology
groups. The parameter-dependence of U(\phi) is given by a relation
U(\phi)=E^{-1}(\phi^p)U(0)E(\phi) with E(\phi) a Wronskian matrix formed from
the periods of the manifold. The periods are defined by series that converge
for $|\phi|_p < 1$. The values of \phi that are of interest are those for which
\phi^p = \phi so, for nonzero \phi, we have |\vph|_p=1. We explain how the
process of p-adic analytic continuation applies to this case. The matrix
U(\phi) breaks up into submatrices of rank 4 and rank 2 and we are able from
this perspective to explain some of the observations that have been made
previously by numerical calculation.
  The Noetherian type of a space is the least $\kappa$ such that it has a base
that is $\kappa$-like with respect to containment. Just as all known
homogeneous compacta have cellularity at most $2^\omega$, they satisfy similar
upper bounds in terms of Noetherian type and related cardinal functions. We
prove these and many other results about these cardinal functions. For example,
every homogeneous dyadic compactum has Noetherian type $\omega$. Assuming GCH,
every point in a homogeneous compactum $X$ has a local base that is $c(X)$-like
with respect to containment. If every point in a compactum has a
well-quasiordered local base, then some point has a countable local $\pi$-base.
  I consider the $\mathbb{Z}_\lambda,$ $\lambda$ prime free-bosonic permutation
orbifolds as interacting physical string systems at $\hat{c} = 26\lambda $. As
a first step, I introduce twisted tree diagrams which confirm at the
interacting level that the physical spectrum of each twisted sector is
equivalent to that of an ordinary $c=26$ closed string. The untwisted sectors
are surprisingly more difficult to understand, and there are subtleties in the
sewing of the loops, but I am able to propose provisional forms for the full
modular-invariant cosmological constants and one-loop diagrams with insertions.
  In this paper, we exhibit the creation of the maximal integral domain mid(R)
generated by a nonzero commutative ring R.
  If A is a cocommutative algebra with coproduct, then so is the smash product
algebra of a symmetric algebra Sym(V) with A, where V is an A-module. Such
smash product algebras, with A a group ring or a Lie algebra, have families of
deformations that have been studied widely in the literature; examples include
symplectic reflection algebras and infinitesimal Hecke algebras. We introduce a
family of deformations of these smash product algebras for general A, and
characterize the PBW property. We then characterize the Jacobi identity for
"grouplike" algebras (that include group rings and the nilCoxeter algebra), and
precisely identify the PBW deformations in the example where A is the
nilCoxeter algebra. We end with the more prominent case - where A is a Hopf
algebra. We show the equivalence of several versions of the "deformed"
relations in the smash product, and identify the PBW deformations which are
Hopf algebras as well.
  In this paper, we consider the necessary and sufficient conditions for the
tensor product of the fundamental representations for the restricted quantum
loop algebras of type A at roots of unity to be irreducible.
  This paper and its prequel ("Part I") prove a generalization of the usual
gluing theorem for two index 1 pseudoholomorphic curves U_+ and U_- in the
symplectization of a contact 3-manifold. We assume that for each embedded Reeb
orbit gamma, the total multiplicity of the negative ends of U_+ at covers of
gamma agrees with the total multiplicity of the positive ends of U_- at covers
of gamma. However, unlike in the usual gluing story, here the individual
multiplicities are allowed to differ. In this situation, one can often glue U_+
and U_- to an index 2 curve by inserting genus zero branched covers of
R-invariant cylinders between them. This paper shows that the signed count of
such gluings equals a signed count of zeroes of a certain section of an
obstruction bundle over the moduli space of branched covers of the cylinder.
Part I obtained a combinatorial formula for the latter count and, assuming the
result of the present paper, deduced that the differential d in embedded
contact homology satisfies d^2=0. The present paper completes all of the
analysis that was needed in Part I. The gluing technique explained here is in
principle applicable to more gluing problems. We also prove some lemmas
concerning the generic behavior of pseudoholomorphic curves in
symplectizations, which may be of independent interest.
  This preprint has been withdrawn. It is because I will never publish this
preprint since everything has been contained in my new preprint:
arXiv:0907.1506. Please refer to arXiv:0907.1506. Please do not cite this
preprint any more.
  This preprint has been withdrawn. It is because I will never publish this
preprint since everything has been contained in my new preprint:
arXiv:0907.1506. Please refer to arXiv:0907.1506. Please do not cite this
preprint any more.
  We determine the abelianization of the symmetric mapping class group of a
double unbranched cover using the Riemann theta constant, Schottky theta
constant, and the theta multiplier. We also give lower bounds of the
abelianizations of some finite index subgroups of the mapping class group.
  In this paper, we give a proof of Mirzakhani's recursion formula of
Weil-Petersson volumes of moduli spaces of curves using the Witten-Kontsevich
theorem. We also describe properties of intersections numbers involving higher
degree $\kappa$ classes.
  In 1921 Blichfeldt gave an upper bound on the number of integral points
contained in a convex body in terms of the volume of the body. More precisely,
he showed that $#(K\cap\Z^n)\leq n! \vol(K)+n$, whenever $K\subset\R^n$ is a
convex body containing $n+1$ affinely independent integral points. Here we
prove an analogous inequality with respect to the surface area $\F(K)$, namely
$ #(K\cap\Z^n) < \vol(K) + ((\sqrt{n}+1)/2) (n-1)! \F(K)$. The proof is based
on a slight improvement of Blichfeldt's bound in the case when $K$ is a
non-lattice translate of a lattice polytope, i.e., $K=t+P$, where
$t\in\R^n\setminus\Z^n$ and $P$ is an $n$-dimensional polytope with integral
vertices. Then we have $#((t+P)\cap\Z^n)\leq n! \vol(P)$.
  Moreover, in the 3-dimensional case we prove a stronger inequality, namely
$#(K\cap\Z^n) < \vol(K) + 2 \F(K)$.
  The new property of minimal surfaces is obtained in this article.
  This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a gap in the proof of the
main result (in 5.3).
  Polyadic arithmetics is a branch of mathematics related to $p$--adic theory.
The aim of the present paper is to show that there are very close relations
between polyadic arithmetics and the classic theory of commutative Banach
algebras. Namely, let $\ms A$ be the algebra consisting of all complex periodic
functions on $\Z$ with the uniform norm. Then the polyadic topological ring can
be defined as the ring of all characters $\ms A\to\C$ with convolution
operations and the Gelfand topology.
  This survey paper is an exposition of old and recent results of Kostant and
al. on the relationships between the exterior algebra of a simple Lie algebra
and the action of the Casimir operator on it. Our exposition relies on
u-cohomology and it is basically self-contained.
  We introduce a wide subclass ${\cal F}(X,\omega)$ of quasi-plurisubharmonic
functions in a compact K\"ahler manifold, on which the complex Monge-Amp\`ere
operator is well-defined and the convergence theorem is valid. We also prove
that ${\cal F}(X,\omega)$ is a convex cone and includes all
quasi-plurisubharmonic functions which are in the Cegrell class.
  Let $\Omega$ represent a two$-$dimensional isotropic elastic body. We
consider the problem of determining the body force $F$ whose form
$\phi(t)(f_1(x),f_2(x))$ with $\phi$ be given inexactly. The problem is
nonlinear and ill-posed. Using the Fourier transform, the methods of Tikhonov's
regularization and truncated integration, we construct a regularized solution
from the data given inexactly and derive the explicitly error estimate.
Numerical part is given
  For any infinite subset $X$ of the rationals and a subset $F \subseteq X$
which has no isolated points in $X$ we construct a function $f: X \to X$ such
that $f(f(x))=x$ for each $x\in X$ and $F $ is the set of discontinuity points
of $f$.
  In this paper, we investigate a numerical algorithm for the pricing of swing
options, relying on the so-called optimal quantization method. The numerical
procedure is described in details and numerous simulations are provided to
assert its efficiency. In particular, we carry out a comparison with the
Longstaff-Schwartz algorithm.
  The main goal of the paper is to address the issue of the existence of
Kempf's distortion function and the Tian-Yau-Zelditch (TYZ) asymptotic
expansion for the Kepler manifold - an important example of non compact
manfold. Motivated by the recent results for compact manifolds we construct
Kempf's distortion function and derive a precise TYZ asymptotic expansion for
the Kepler manifold. We get an exact formula: finite asymptotic expansion of
$n-1$ terms and exponentially small error terms uniformly with respect to the
discrete quantization parameter $m\to \infty $ and $\rho \to \infty$, $\rho$
being the polar radius in $\C^n$.
  Moreover, the coefficents are calculated explicitly and they turned out to be
homogeneous functions with respect to the polar radius in the Kepler manifold.
We also prove and derive an asymptotic expansion of the obtstruction term with
the coefficients being defined by geometrical quantities. We show that our
estimates are sharp by analyzing the nonharmonic behaviour of $T_m$ and the
error term of the approximation of the Fubini--Study metric by $m\omega$ for
$m\to +\infty$. The arguments of the proofs combine geometrical methods,
quantization tools and functional analytic techniques for investigating
asymptotic expansions in the framework of analytic-Gevrey spaces.
  An $n$-dimensional Hartogs domain $D_F$ with strongly pseudoconvex boundary
can be equipped with a natural \K metric $g_F$. In this paper we prove that if
$g_F$ is an extremal \K metric then $(D_F, g_F)$ is biholomorphically isometric
to the $n$-dimensional complex hyperbolic space.
  We prove that the binary complexity of solving ordinary polynomial
differential equations in terms of Puiseux series is single exponential in the
number of terms in the series. Such a bound was given by Grigoriev [10] for
Riccatti differential polynomials associated to ordinary linear differential
operators. In this paper, we get the same bound for arbitrary differential
polynomials. The algorithm is based on a differential version of the
Newton-Puiseux procedure for algebraic equations.
  We consider a real-valued path; it is possible to associate a tree to this
path, and we explore the relations between the tree, the properties of
$p$-variation of the path, and integration with respect to the path. In
particular, the fractal dimension of the tree is estimated from the variations
of the path, and Young integrals with respect to the path, as well as integrals
from the rough paths theory, are written as integrals on the tree. Examples
include some stochastic paths such as martingales, L\'evy processes and
fractional Brownian motions (for which an estimator of the Hurst parameter is
given).
  We introduce a rotation invariant short distance cut-off in the theory of an
ideal fluid in three space dimensions, by requiring momenta to take values in a
sphere. This leads to an algebra of functions in position space is
non-commutative. Nevertheless it is possible to find appropriate analogues of
the Euler equations of an ideal fluid. The system still has a hamiltonian
structure. It is hoped that this will be useful in the study of possible
singularities in the evolution of Euler (or Navier-Stokes) equations in three
dimensions.
  The set of solutions of random constraint satisfaction problems (zero energy
groundstates of mean-field diluted spin glasses) undergoes several structural
phase transitions as the amount of constraints is increased. This set first
breaks down into a large number of well separated clusters. At the freezing
transition, which is in general distinct from the clustering one, some
variables (spins) take the same value in all solutions of a given cluster. In
this paper we study the critical behavior around the freezing transition, which
appears in the unfrozen phase as the divergence of the sizes of the
rearrangements induced in response to the modification of a variable. The
formalism is developed on generic constraint satisfaction problems and applied
in particular to the random satisfiability of boolean formulas and to the
coloring of random graphs. The computation is first performed in random tree
ensembles, for which we underline a connection with percolation models and with
the reconstruction problem of information theory. The validity of these results
for the original random ensembles is then discussed in the framework of the
cavity method.
  We show that a certain type of quasi finite, conservative, ergodic, measure
preserving transformation always has a maximal zero entropy factor, generated
by predictable sets. We also construct a conservative, ergodic, measure
preserving transformation which is not quasi finite; and consider distribution
asymptotics of information showing that e.g. for Boole's transformation,
information is asymptotically mod-normal with square root normalization. Lastly
we see that certain ergodic, probability preserving transformations with zero
entropy have analogous properties and consequently entropy dimension of at most
1/2.
  We study distributions on a Euclidean Jordan algebra V with values in a
finite dimensional representation space for the identity component G of the
structure group of V and homogeneous equivariance condition. We show that such
distributions exist if and only if the representation is spherical, and that
then the dimension of the space of these distributions is r+1 (where r is the
rank of V). We give also construction of these distributions and of those that
are invariant under the semi-simple part of G.
  We exhibit a set of recursive relations that completely determine all
equivariant Gromov-Witten invariants of the quotient orbifold C^3/Z_3. We
interpret such invariants as G-Hodge Integrals, and produce relations among
them via Atiyah-Bott localization on moduli spaces of twisted stable maps to
gerbes over the projective line.
  We give a construction of the moduli space of stable maps to the classifying
stack B\mu_r of a cyclic group by a sequence of r-th root constructions on
M_{0, n}. We prove a closed formula for the total Chern class of
\mu_r-eigenspaces of the Hodge bundle, and thus of the obstruction bundle of
the genus zero Gromov-Witten theory of stacks of the form [C^N/\mu_r].
  We deduce linear recursions for all genus-zero Gromov-Witten invariants.
  Fibered holomorphic dynamics are skew-product transformations over an
irrational rotation, whose fibers are holomorphic functions. In this paper we
study such a dynamics on a neighborhood of an invariant curve. We obtain some
results analogous to the results in the non fibered case.
  In the first part, in the local non archimedean case, we consider
distributions on GL(n+1) which are invariant under the adjoint action of GL(n).
We conjecture that such distributions are invariant by transposition. This
would imply multiplicity at most one for restrictions from GL(n+1) to GL(n). We
reduce ourselves to distributions with "singular" support and then finish the
proof for n< 9.
  In the second part we show that similar Theorems for orthogonal or unitary
groups follow from the case of GL(n)
  A geometric approach to time-dependent optimal control problems is proposed.
This formulation is based on the Skinner and Rusk formalism for Lagrangian and
Hamiltonian systems. The corresponding unified formalism developed for optimal
control systems allows us to formulate geometrically the necessary conditions
given by Pontryagin's Maximum Principle, provided that the differentiability
with respect to controls is assumed and the space of controls is open.
Furthermore, our method is also valid for implicit optimal control systems and,
in particular, for the so-called descriptor systems (optimal control problems
including both differential and algebraic equations).
  We study the integral and measure theory of the ultraproduct of finite sets.
As a main application we construct limit objects for hypergraph sequences. We
give a new proof for the Hypergraph Removal Lemma and the Hypergraph Regularity
Lemma.
  We find all polynomials f,g,h over a field K such that g and h are linear and
f(g(x))=h(f(x)). We also solve the same problem for rational functions f,g,h,
in case the field K is algebraically closed.
  We study the moduli space $\fM^s(6;3,6,4)$ of simple rank 6 vector bundles
$\E$ on $\PP^3$ with Chern polynomial $1+3t+6t^2+4t^3$ and properties of these
bundles, especially we prove some partial results concerning their stability.
We first recall how these bundles are related to the construction of sextic
nodal surfaces in $\PP^3$ having an even set of 56 nodes (cf. \cite{CaTo}). We
prove that there is an open set, corresponding to the simple bundles with
minimal cohomology, which is irreducible of dimension 19 and bimeromorphic to
an open set $\fA^0$ of the G.I.T. quotient space of the projective space
$\fB:=\{B\in \PP(U^\vee\otimes W\otimes V^\vee)\}$ of triple tensors of type
$(3,3,4)$ by the natural action of $SL(W)\times SL(U)$. We give several
constructions for these bundles, which relate them to cubic surfaces in 3-space
$\PP^3$ and to cubic surfaces in the dual space $(\PP^3)^{\vee}$. One of these
constructions, suggested by Igor Dolgachev, generalizes to other types of
tensors. Moreover, we relate the socalled {\em cross-product involution} for
$(3,3,4)$-tensors, introduced in \cite{CaTo}, with the Schur quadric associated
to a cubic surface in $\PP^3$ and study further properties of this involution.
  In this paper, we make the notion of approximating an Artinian local ring by
a Gorenstein Artin local ring precise using the concept of Gorenstein colength.
We also answer the question as to when the Gorenstein colength is at most two.
  We identify multiresolution subspaces giving rise via Hankel transforms to
Bessel functions. They emerge as orthogonal systems derived from geometric
Hilbert-space considerations, the same way the wavelet functions from a
multiresolution scaling wavelet construction arise from a scale of Hilbert
spaces. We study the theory of representations of the $C^{\ast}$-algebra $%
O_{\nu +1}$ arising from this multiresolution analysis. A connection with
Markov chains and representations of $O_{\nu +1}$ is found. Projection valued
measures arising from the multiresolution analysis give rise to a Markov trace
for quantum groups $SO_q$.
  Motivated by work of Buch on set-valued tableaux in relation to the K-theory
of the Grassmannian, we study six combinatorial Hopf algebras. These Hopf
algebras can be thought of as K-theoretic analogues of the by now classical
``square'' of Hopf algebras consisting of symmetric functions, quasisymmetric
functions, noncommutative symmetric functions and the Malvenuto-Reutenauer Hopf
algebra of permutations. In addition, we develop a theory of set-valued
P-partitions and study three new families of symmetric functions which are
weight generating functions of reverse plane partitions, weak set-valued
tableaux and valued-set tableaux.
  We show that a certain superfield formalism can be used to find an off-shell
supersymmetric description for some supersymmetric field theories where
conventional superfield formalism does not work. This "new" formalism contains
even auxiliary variables in addition to conventional odd super-coordinates. The
idea of this construction is similar to the pure spinor formalism developed by
N.Berkovits. It is demonstrated that using this formalism it is possible to
prove that the certain Chern-Simons-like (Witten's OSFT-like) theory can be
considered as an off-shell version for some on-shell supersymmetric field
theories. We use the simplest non-trivial model found in [2] to illustrate the
power of this pure spinor superfield formalism. Then we redo all the
calculations for the case of 10-dimensional Super-Yang-Mills theory. The
construction of off-shell description for this theory is more subtle in
comparison with the model of [2] and requires additional Z_2 projection. We
discover experimentally (through a direct explicit calculation) a non-trivial
Z_2 duality at the level of Feynman diagrams. The nature of this duality
requires a better investigation.
  The Gauss map of non-degenerate surfaces in the three-dimensional Minkowski
space are viewed as dynamical fields of the two-dimensional O(2,1) Nonlinear
Sigma Model. In this setting, the moduli space of solutions with rotational
symmetry is completely determined. Essentially, the solutions are warped
products of orbits of the 1-dimensional groups of isometries and elastic curves
in either a de Sitter plane, a hyperbolic plane or an anti de Sitter plane. The
main tools are the equivalence of the two-dimensional O(2,1) Nonlinear Sigma
Model and the Willmore problem, and the description of the surfaces with
rotational symmetry. A complete classification of such surfaces is obtained in
this paper. Indeed, a huge new family of Lorentzian rotational surfaces with a
space-like axis is presented. The description of this new class of surfaces is
based on a technique of surgery and a gluing process, which is illustrated by
an algorithm.
  We prove that $W^{1}_{p}$ is an interpolation space between $W^{1}_{p_{1}}$
and $W^{1}_{p_{2}}$ for $p>q_{0}$ and $1\leq p_{1}<p<p_{2}\leq \infty$ on some
classes of manifolds and general metric spaces, where $q_{0}$ depends on our
hypotheses.
  We prove an almost continuous version of Dye's theorem: any two non-atomic
probability measure preserving homeomorphisms of Polish spaces are almost
continuously orbit equivalent. More precisely they are orbit equivalent by a
map which is defined and continuous on a Polish subset of full measure with an
inverse satisfying the same conditions. This result includes all of the recent
results on almost continuous orbit equivalence. We also deal with the case of
infinite invariant measures.
  We consider Kac's random walk on $n$-dimensional rotation matrices, where
each step is a random rotation in the plane generated by two randomly picked
coordinates. We show that this process converges to the Haar measure on
$\mathit{SO}(n)$ in the $L^2$ transportation cost (Wasserstein) metric in
$O(n^2\ln n)$ steps. We also prove that our bound is at most a $O(\ln n)$
factor away from optimal. Previous bounds, due to Diaconis/Saloff-Coste and
Pak/Sidenko, had extra powers of $n$ and held only for $L^1$ transportation
cost. Our proof method includes a general result of independent interest, akin
to the path coupling method of Bubley and Dyer. Suppose that $P$ is a Markov
chain on a Polish length space $(M,d)$ and that for all $x,y\in M$ with
$d(x,y)\ll1$ there is a coupling $(X,Y)$ of one step of $P$ from $x$ and $y$
(resp.) that contracts distances by a $(\xi+o(1))$ factor on average. Then the
map $\mu\mapsto\mu P$ is $\xi$-contracting in the transportation cost metric.
  In the present work, torsion energy is defined. Its law of conservation is
given. It is shown that this type of energy gives rise to a repulsive force
which can be used to interpret supernovae type Ia observations, and
consequently the accelerating expansion of the Universe. This interpretation is
a pure geometric one and is a direct application of the geometrization
philosophy. Torsion energy can also be used to solve other problems of General
Relativity especially the singularity problem.
  In this letter, we elaborate on the identification and construction of the
differential geometric elements underlying Berry's phase. Berry bundles are
built generally from the physical data of the quantum system under study. We
apply this construction to typical and recently investigated systems presenting
Berry's phase to explore their geometric features.
  We present a particle filter construction for a system that exhibits
time-scale separation. The separation of time-scales allows two simplifications
that we exploit: i) The use of the averaging principle for the dimensional
reduction of the system needed to solve for each particle and ii) the
factorization of the transition probability which allows the
Rao-Blackwellization of the filtering step. Both simplifications can be
implemented using the coarse projective integration framework. The resulting
particle filter is faster and has smaller variance than the particle filter
based on the original system. The method is tested on a multiscale stochastic
differential equation and on a multiscale pure jump diffusion motivated by
chemical reactions.
  We give a short, case-free and combinatorial proof of de Concini and
Procesi's formula for the volume of the simplicial cone spanned by the simple
roots of any finite root system. The argument presented here also extends their
formula to include the non-crystallographic root systems.
  In this paper we shall develop a theory of (extended) double shuffle
relations of Euler sums which generalizes that of multiple zeta values (see
Ihara, Kaneko and Zagier, \emph{Derivation and double shuffle relations for
multiple zeta values}. Compos. Math. \textbf{142} (2)(2006), 307--338). After
setting up the general framework we provide some numerical evidence for our two
main conjectures. At the end we shall prove the following long standing
conjecture: for every positive integer n
$$\zeta(\{3\}^n)=8^n\zeta(\{\ol2,1\}^n).$$ The main idea is to use the double
shuffle relations and the distribution relation. This particular distribution
relation doesn't follow from the double shuffle relation in general. But we
believe it does follow from the extended double shuffle relations.
  We study the interpolation property of Sobolev spaces of order 1 denoted by
$W^{1}_{p,V}$, arising from Schr\"{o}dinger operators with positive potential.
We show that for $1\leq p_1<p<p_2<q_{0}$ with $p>s_0$, $W^{1}_{p,V}$ is a real
interpolation space between $W_{p_1,V}^{1}$ and $W_{p_2,V}^{1}$ on some classes
of manifolds and Lie groups. The constants $s_{0}, q_{0}$ depend on our
hypotheses.
  This paper characterizes the effect of finite rate channel state feedback on
the sum rate of a multi-access multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) system. We
propose to control the users jointly, specifically, we first choose the users
jointly and then select the corresponding beamforming vectors jointly. To
quantify the sum rate, this paper introduces the composite Grassmann manifold
and the composite Grassmann matrix. By characterizing the distortion rate
function on the composite Grassmann manifold and calculating the logdet
function of a random composite Grassmann matrix, a good sum rate approximation
is derived. According to the distortion rate function on the composite
Grassmann manifold, the loss due to finite beamforming decreases exponentially
as the feedback bits on beamforming increases.
  This paper considers the quantization problem on the Grassmann manifold with
dimension n and p. The unique contribution is the derivation of a closed-form
formula for the volume of a metric ball in the Grassmann manifold when the
radius is sufficiently small. This volume formula holds for Grassmann manifolds
with arbitrary dimension n and p, while previous results are only valid for
either p=1 or a fixed p with asymptotically large n. Based on the volume
formula, the Gilbert-Varshamov and Hamming bounds for sphere packings are
obtained. Assuming a uniformly distributed source and a distortion metric based
on the squared chordal distance, tight lower and upper bounds are established
for the distortion rate tradeoff. Simulation results match the derived results.
As an application of the derived quantization bounds, the information rate of a
Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) system with finite-rate channel-state
feedback is accurately quantified for arbitrary finite number of antennas,
while previous results are only valid for either Multiple-Input Single-Output
(MISO) systems or those with asymptotically large number of transmit antennas
but fixed number of receive antennas.
  This paper quantifies the information rate of multiple-input multiple-output
(MIMO) systems with finite rate channel state feedback and power on/off
strategy. In power on/off strategy, a beamforming vector (beam) is either
turned on (denoted by on-beam) with a constant power or turned off. We prove
that the ratio of the optimal number of on-beams and the number of antennas
converges to a constant for a given signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) when the number
of transmit and receive antennas approaches infinity simultaneously and when
beamforming is perfect. Based on this result, a near optimal strategy, i.e.,
power on/off strategy with a constant number of on-beams, is discussed. For
such a strategy, we propose the power efficiency factor to quantify the effect
of imperfect beamforming. A formula is proposed to compute the maximum power
efficiency factor achievable given a feedback rate. The information rate of the
overall MIMO system can be approximated by combining the asymptotic results and
the formula for power efficiency factor. Simulations show that this
approximation is accurate for all SNR regimes.
  This paper considers broadcast channels with L antennas at the base station
and m single-antenna users, where each user has perfect channel knowledge and
the base station obtains channel information through a finite rate feedback.
The key observation of this paper is that the optimal number of on-users (users
turned on), say s, is a function of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and other
system parameters. Towards this observation, we use asymptotic analysis to
guide the design of feedback and transmission strategies. As L, m and the
feedback rates approach infinity linearly, we derive the asymptotic optimal
feedback strategy and a realistic criterion to decide which users should be
turned on. Define the corresponding asymptotic throughput per antenna as the
spatial efficiency. It is a function of the number of on-users s, and
therefore, s should be appropriately chosen. Based on the above asymptotic
results, we also develop a scheme for a system with finite many antennas and
users. Compared with other works where s is presumed constant, our scheme
achieves a significant gain by choosing the appropriate s. Furthermore, our
analysis and scheme is valid for heterogeneous systems where different users
may have different path loss coefficients and feedback rates.
  The Grassmann manifold G_{n,p}(L) is the set of all p-dimensional planes
(through the origin) in the n-dimensional Euclidean space L^{n}, where L is
either R or C. This paper considers an unequal dimensional quantization in
which a source in G_{n,p}(L) is quantized through a code in G_{n,q}(L), where p
and q are not necessarily the same. It is different from most works in
literature where p\equiv q. The analysis for unequal dimensional quantization
is based on the volume of a metric ball in G_{n,p}(L) whose center is in
G_{n,q}(L). Our chief result is a closed-form formula for the volume of a
metric ball when the radius is sufficiently small. This volume formula holds
for Grassmann manifolds with arbitrary n, p, q and L, while previous results
pertained only to some special cases. Based on this volume formula, several
bounds are derived for the rate distortion tradeoff assuming the quantization
rate is sufficiently high. The lower and upper bounds on the distortion rate
function are asymptotically identical, and so precisely quantify the asymptotic
rate distortion tradeoff. We also show that random codes are asymptotically
optimal in the sense that they achieve the minimum achievable distortion with
probability one as n and the code rate approach infinity linearly. Finally, we
discuss some applications of the derived results to communication theory. A
geometric interpretation in the Grassmann manifold is developed for capacity
calculation of additive white Gaussian noise channel. Further, the derived
distortion rate function is beneficial to characterizing the effect of
beamforming matrix selection in multi-antenna communications.
  The complexity of a graph can be obtained as a derivative of a variation of
the zeta function or a partial derivative of its generalized characteristic
polynomial evaluated at a point [\textit{J. Combin. Theory Ser. B}, 74 (1998),
pp. 408--410]. A similar result for the weighted complexity of weighted graphs
was found using a determinant function [\textit{J. Combin. Theory Ser. B}, 89
(2003), pp. 17--26]. In this paper, we consider the determinant function of two
variables and discover a condition that the weighted complexity of a weighted
graph is a partial derivative of the determinant function evaluated at a point.
Consequently, we simply obtain the previous results and disclose a new formula
for the Bartholdi zeta function. We also consider a new weighted complexity,
for which the weights of spanning trees are taken as the sum of weights of
edges in the tree, and find a similar formula for this new weighted complexity.
As an application, we compute the weighted complexities of the product of the
complete graphs.
  Let $v$ and $\o$ be the velocity and the vorticity of the a suitable weak
solution of the 3D Navier-Stokes equations in a space-time domain containing
$z_0 =(x_0, t_0)$, and $Q_{z_0, r} =B_{x_0, r}\times (t_0-r^2, t_0)$ be a
parabolic cylinder in the domain. We show that if $v\times \frac{\o}{|\o|}\in
L^{\gamma, \alpha}_{x,t} (Q_{z_0, r})$ or ${\o}\times \frac{v}{|v|}\in
L^{\gamma, \alpha}_{x,t} (Q_{z_0, r})$, where $L^{\gamma, \alpha}_{x,t}$
denotes the Serrin type of class, then $z_0$ is a regular point for $v$. This
refines previous local regularity criteria for the suitable weak solutions.
  We study boundary blow-up solutions of semilinear elliptic equations
$Lu=u_+^p$ with $p>1$, or $Lu=e^{au}$ with $a>0$, where $L$ is a second order
elliptic operator with measurable coefficients. Several uniqueness theorems and
an existence theorem are obtained.
  In the present paper, we shall show that for any prime number p, every finite
p-group occurs as the Galois Group of the maximal unramified p-extension over a
certain number field of finite degree.
  We shall also show that for any given pro-p-group G with countably many
generators, there exists a number field (not necessary of finite degree) whose
maximal unramified p-extension has Galois group isomorphic to G. This means
that the set of the isomorphism classes of the Galois groups of the maximal
unramified p-extensions over the number fields (including of infinite degree)
is precisely equal to that of all the pro-p-groups with countably many
generators.
  The notion of {\em $p$-adic multiresolution analysis (MRA)} is introduced. We
discuss a ``natural'' refinement equation whose solution (a refinable function)
is the characteristic function of the unit disc. This equation reflects the
fact that the characteristic function of the unit disc is a sum of $p$
characteristic functions of mutually disjoint discs of radius $p^{-1}$. This
refinement equation generates a MRA. The case $p=2$ is studied in detail. Our
MRA is a 2-adic analog of the real Haar MRA. But in contrast to the real
setting, the refinable function generating our Haar MRA is 1-periodic, which
never holds for real refinable functions. This fact implies that there exist
infinity many different 2-adic orthonormal wavelet bases in ${\cL}^2(\bQ_2)$
generated by the same Haar MRA. All of these bases are described. We also
constructed multidimensional 2-adic Haar orthonormal bases for
${\cL}^2(\bQ_2^n)$ by means of the tensor product of one-dimensional MRAs. A
criterion for a multidimensional $p$-adic wavelet to be an eigenfunction for a
pseudo-differential operator is derived. We proved also that these wavelets are
eigenfunctions of the Taibleson multidimensional fractional operator. These
facts create the necessary prerequisites for intensive using our bases in
applications.
  Local sentences were introduced by J.-P. Ressayre who proved certain
remarkable stretching theorems establishing the equivalence between the
existence of finite models for these sentences and the existence of some
infinite well ordered models. Two of these stretching theorems were only proved
under certain large cardinal axioms but the question of their exact
(consistency) strength was left open in [O. Finkel and J.-P. Ressayre,
Stretchings, Journal of Symbolic Logic, Volume 61 (2), 1996, p. 563-585 ].
Here, we solve this problem, using a combinatorial result of J. H. Schmerl. In
fact, we show that the stretching principles are equivalent to the existence of
n-Mahlo cardinals for appropriate integers n. This is done by proving first
that for each integer n, there is a local sentence phi_n which has well ordered
models of order type alpha, for every infinite ordinal alpha > omega which is
not an n-Mahlo cardinal.
  A general result on the method of randomized stopping is proved. It is
applied to optimal stopping of controlled diffusion processes with unbounded
coefficients to reduce it to an optimal control problem without stopping. This
is motivated by recent results of Krylov on numerical solutions to the Bellman
equation.
  Let $I$ be a monomial ideal of a polynomial ring $R$. In this paper we
determine a number $B$ such that $\Ass (I^n/I^{n+1}) = \Ass (I^{B}/I^{B+1})$
for all $n\geq B$.
  Schramm Loewner Evolutions (SLE) are random increasing hulls defined through
the Loewner equation driven by Brownian motion. It is known that the increasing
hulls are generated by continuous curves. When the driving process is of the
form \sqrt{\kappa} B+\theta^{1/\alpha}S for a Brownian motion B and a symmetric
\alpha-stable process S with \kappa not equal to 4 and 8, we prove that the
corresponding increasing hulls are generated by Cadlag curves.
  We discuss the notion of the orbifold transform, and illustrate it on simple
examples. The basic properties of the transform are presented, including
transitivity and the exponential formula for symmetric products. The connection
with the theory of permutation orbifolds is addressed, and the general results
illustrated on the example of torus partition functions.
  The long-root elements in Lie algebras of Chevalley type have been well
studied and can be characterized as extremal elements, that is, elements $x$
such that the image of $(\ad x)^2$ lies in the subspace spanned by $x$. In this
paper, assuming an algebraically closed base field of characteristic not 2, we
find presentations of the Lie algebras of classical Chevalley type by means of
minimal sets of extremal generators. The relations are described by simple
graphs on the sets. For example, for $C_n$ the graph is a path of length $2n$,
and for $A_n$ the graph is the triangle connected to a path of length $n-3$.
  This paper has been withdrawn by the author for further modification.
  We compute de Chow motive of certain subvarieties of the flags manifold and
show that it is an Artin motive.
  Let P(z) and Q(y) be polynomials of the same degree k>=1 in the complex
variables z and y, respectively. In this extended abstract we study the
non-linear functional equation P(z)=Q(y(z)), where y(z) is restricted to be
analytic in a neighborhood of z=0. We provide sufficient conditions to ensure
that all the roots of Q(y) are contained within the range of y(z) as well as to
have y(z)=z as the unique analytic solution of the non-linear equation. Our
results are motivated from uniqueness considerations of polynomial canonical
representations of the phase or amplitude terms of oscillatory integrals
encountered in the asymptotic analysis of the coefficients of mixed powers and
multivariable generating functions via saddle-point methods. Uniqueness shall
prove important for developing algorithms to determine the Taylor coefficients
of the terms appearing in these representations. The uniqueness of Levinson's
polynomial canonical representations of analytic functions in several variables
follows as a corollary of our one-complex variables results.
  We will show that if a dynamical system has enough constants of motion then a
Moser-Weinstein type theorem can be applied for proving the existence of
periodic orbits in the case when the linearized system is degenerate.
  A geometric setup for control theory is presented. The argument is developed
through the study of the extremals of action functionals defined on piecewise
differentiable curves, in the presence of differentiable non-holonomic
constraints. Special emphasis is put on the tensorial aspects of the theory. To
start with, the kinematical foundations, culminating in the so called
variational equation, are put on geometrical grounds, via the introduction of
the concept of infinitesimal control . On the same basis, the usual
classification of the extremals of a variational problem into normal and
abnormal ones is also rationalized, showing the existence of a purely
kinematical algorithm assigning to each admissible curve a corresponding
abnormality index, defined in terms of a suitable linear map. The whole
machinery is then applied to constrained variational calculus. The argument
provides an interesting revisitation of Pontryagin maximum principle and of the
Erdmann-Weierstrass corner conditions, as well as a proof of the classical
Lagrange multipliers method and a local interpretation of Pontryagin's
equations as dynamical equations for a free (singular) Hamiltonian system. As a
final, highly non-trivial topic, a sufficient condition for the existence of
finite deformations with fixed endpoints is explicitly stated and proved.
  Twisted Alexander invariants of knots are well-defined up to multiplication
of units. We get rid of this multiplicative ambiguity via a combinatorial
method and define normalized twisted Alexander invariants. We then show that
the invariants coincide with sign-determined Reidemeister torsion in a
normalized setting, and refine the duality theorem. We further obtain necessary
conditions on the invariants for a knot to be fibered, and study behavior of
the highest degrees of the invariants.
  We define a grid presentation for singular links i.e. links with a finite
number of rigid transverse double points. Then we use it to generalize link
Floer homology to singular links. Besides the consistency of its definition, we
prove that this homology is acyclic under some conditions which naturally make
its Euler characteristic vanish.
  We present evalauations and provide proofs of definite integrals involving
the function x^p cos^n x. These formulae are generalizations of 3.761.11 and
3.822.1, among others, in the classical table of integrals by I. S. Gradshteyn
and I. M. Ryzhik.
  In this paper, we first discuss the general properties of an
intermediate-statistics quantum bracket, $[ u,v]_{n}=uv-e^{i2\pi /(n+1)}vu$,
which corresponds to intermediate statistics in which the maximum occupation
number of one quantum state is an arbitrary integer, $n$. A further study of
the operator realization of intermediate statistics is given. We construct the
intermediate-statistics coherent state. An intermediate-statistics oscillator
is constructed, which returns to bosonic and fermionic oscillators respectively
when $n\to \infty $ and $n=1$. The energy spectrum of such an
intermediate-statistics oscillator is calculated. Finally, we discuss the
intermediate-statistics representation of angular momentum ($su(2)$) algebra.
Moreover, a further study of the operator realization of intermediate
statistics is given in the Appendix.
  This paper attempts to define a generalisation of the standard Einstein
condition (in conformal/metric geometry) to any parabolic geometry. To do so,
it shows that any preserved involution $\sigma$ of the adjoint bundle $\mc{A}$
gives rise, given certain algebraic conditions, to a unique preferred affine
connection $\nabla$ with covariantly constant rho-tensor $\mathsf{P}$,
compatible with the algebraic bracket on $\mc{A}$. These conditions can
reasonably be considered the generalisations of the Einstein condition, and
recreate the standard Einstein condition in conformal geometry. The existence
of such an involution is implies by some simpler structures: preserved metrics
when the overall algebra $\mf{g}$ is $\mf{sl}(m,\mbb{F})$, preserved complex
structures anti-commuting with the skew-form for $\mf{g}=\mf{sp}(2m,\mbb{F})$,
and preserved subundles of the tangent bundle, of a certain rank, for all the
other non-exceptional simple Lie algebras. Examples of Einstein involutions are
constructed or referenced for several geometries. The existence of cone
constructions for certain Einstein involutions is then demonstrated.
  Using the Luthar-Passi method, we investigate the classical Zassenhaus
conjecture for the normalized unit group of the integral group ring of the
Higman-Sims simple sporadic group HS. As a consequence, we confirm the
Kimmerle's conjecture on prime graphs for this sporadic group.
  The invariants of solvable triangular Lie algebras with one nilindependent
diagonal element are studied exhaustively. Bases of the invariant sets of all
such algebras are constructed using an original algebraic algorithm based on
Cartan's method of moving frames and the special technique developed for
triangular and related algebras in [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007),
7557-7572]. The conjecture of Tremblay and Winternitz [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen.
34 (2001), 9085-9099] on the number and form of elements in the bases is
completed and proved.
  In 1929 Heisenberg and Pauli laid the foundations of QFT by quantizing the
fields (method of canonical quantization). This general theory of quantized
fields has remained undisputed up to now. We show how the unmodified
Heisenberg-Pauli calculations make sense mathematically by using a theory of
generalized functions adapted to nonlinear operations. By providing an
appropriate mathematical setting, nonlinear generalized functions open doors
for their understanding but there remains presumably very hard technical
problems. (i) Domains of the interacting field operators: a priori the H-P
calculations give time dependent dense domains, what is not very convenient;
(ii) Calculations of the resulting matrix elements of the S operator: from the
unitarity of the S operator as a whole there are no longer ``infinities,'' but
a priori there is no other hope than heavy computer calculations; (iii)
Connection with renormalization theory: it should provide an approximation when
the coupling constant is small. The aim of this paper is to present, on the
grounds of a standard mathematical model of QFT (a self interacting scalar
boson field), a basis for improvement without significant prerequisites in
mathematics and physics. It is an attempt to use nonlinear generalized
functions in QFT, starting directly from the calculations made by physicists,
in the same way as they have already been used in classical mechanics and
general relativity.
  We compute the reduced genus 1 Gromov-Witten invariants of Calabi-Yau
hypersurfaces. As a consequence, we confirm the 1993 Bershadsky-Cecotti
Ooguri-Vafa (BCOV) prediction for the standard genus 1 GW-invariants of a
quintic threefold. We combine constructions from a series of previous papers
with the classical localization theorem to relate the reduced genus 1
invariants of a CY-hypersurface to previously computed integrals on moduli
spaces of stable genus 0 maps into projective space. The resulting, rather
unwieldy, expressions for a genus 1 equivariant generating function simplify
drastically, using a regularity property of a genus 0 equivariant generating
function in half of the cases. Finally, by disregarding terms that cannot
effect the non-equivariant part of the former, we relate the answer to an
explicit hypergeometric series in a simple way. The approach described in this
paper is systematic. It is directly applicable to computing reduced genus 1
GW-invariants of other complete intersections and should apply to higher-genus
localization computations.
  We provide supplementary appendices to the paper Misere quotients for
impartial games. These include detailed solutions to many of the octal games
discussed in the paper, and descriptions of the algorithms used to compute most
of our solutions.
  Nonuniform tubular neighborhoods of curves in Euclidean n-space are studied
by using weighted distance functions and generalizing the normal exponential
map. Different notions of injectivity radii are introduced to investigate
singular but injective exponential maps. A generalization of the thickness
formula is obtained for nonuniform thickness. All singularities within almost
injectivity radius are classified by the Horizontal Collapsing Property.
Examples are provided to show the distinction between the different types of
injectivity radii, as well as showing that the standard differentiable
injectivity radius fails to be upper semicontinuous on a singular set of weight
functions.
  Initiated by Gromov, the study of holomorphic curves in symplectic manifolds
has been a powerfull tool in symplectic topology, however the moduli space of
holomorphic curves is often very difficult to find. A common technique is to
study the limiting behavior of holomorphic curves in a degenerating family of
complex structures which corresponds to a kind of adiabatic limit. The category
of exploded fibrations is an extension of the smooth category in which some of
these degenerations can be described as smooth families.
  The first part of this paper is devoted to defining exploded fibrations and a
slightly more specialized category of exploded torus fibrations. Later sections
contain the transverse interesction theory for exploded fibrations and some
examples of holomorphic curves in exploded torus fibrations, including a brief
discussion of the relationship between tropical geometry and exploded torus
fibrations. In the final section, the perturbation theory of holomorphic curves
in exploded torus fibrations is sketched.
  In this paper, we complete the proof of an equivalence given by Nye and
Singer of the equivalence between calorons (instantons on $S^1\times R^3$) and
solutions to Nahm's equations over the circle, both satisfying appropriate
boundary conditions. Many of the key ingredients are provided by a third way of
encoding the same data which involves twistors and complex geometry.
  The diffusivity $D(t)$ of finite-range asymmetric exclusion processes on
$\mathbb Z$ with non-zero drift is expected to be of order $t^{1/3}$.
Sepp\"{a}l\"ainen and Bal\'azs recently proved this conjecture for the nearest
neighbor case. We extend their results to general finite range exclusion by
proving that the Laplace transform of the diffusivity is of the conjectured
order. We also obtain a pointwise upper bound for $D(t)$ the correct order.
  We present here a systematic and unified treatment to connect the Schrodinger
equation corresponding to generalized Morse and Poschl-Teller potentials. We
then show that the wave functions and generalized potentials are linked through
the Fourier and Hankel transforms, respectively.
  Let m,n be positive integers. Define T(m,n) to be the transportation polytope
consisting of the m x n non-negative real matrices whose rows each sum to 1 and
whose columns each sum to m/n. The special case B(n)=T(n,n) is the much-studied
Birkhoff-von Neumann polytope of doubly-stochastic matrices. Using a recent
asymptotic enumeration of non-negative integer matrices (Canfield and McKay,
2007), we determine the asymptotic volume of T(m,n) as n goes to infinity, with
m=m(n) such that m/n neither decreases nor increases too quickly. In
particular, we give an asymptotic formula for the volume of B(n).
  We consider a class of electromagnetic fields that contains crossed fields
combined with longitudinal electric and magnetic fields. We study the motion of
a classical particle (solutions of the Lorentz equations) in such fields. Then,
we present an analysis that allows one to decide which fields from the class
act as a beam guide for charged particles, and we find some time-independent
and time-dependent configurations with beam guiding properties. We demonstrate
that the Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations with all the fields from the class
can be solved exactly. We study these solutions, which were not known before,
and prove that they form complete and orthogonal sets of functions.
  Sphere decoding (SD) is a low complexity maximum likelihood (ML) detection
algorithm, which has been adapted for different linear channels in digital
communications. The complexity of the SD has been shown to be exponential in
some cases, and polynomial in others and under certain assumptions. The sphere
radius and the number of nodes visited throughout the tree traversal search are
the decisive factors for the complexity of the algorithm. The radius problem
has been addressed and treated widely in the literature. In this paper, we
propose a new structure for SD, which drastically reduces the overall
complexity. The complexity is measured in terms of the floating point
operations per second (FLOPS) and the number of nodes visited throughout the
algorithm tree search. This reduction in the complexity is due to the ability
of decoding the real and imaginary parts of each jointly detected symbol
independently of each other, making use of the new lattice representation. We
further show by simulations that the new approach achieves 80% reduction in the
overall complexity compared to the conventional SD for a 2x2 system, and almost
50% reduction for the 4x4 and 6x6 cases, thus relaxing the requirements for
hardware implementation.
  In this paper we study standard bases for submodules of
K[[t_1,...,t_m]][x_1,...,x_n]^s respectively of their localisation with respect
to a t-local monomial ordering. The main step is to prove the existence of a
division with remainder generalising and combining the division theorems of
Grauert and Mora. Everything else then translates naturally. Setting either m=0
or n=0 we get standard bases for polynomial rings respectively for power series
rings as a special case. We then apply this technique to show that the
t-initial ideal of an ideal over the Puiseux series field can be read of from a
standard basis of its generators. This is an important step in the constructive
proof that each point in the tropical variety of such an ideal admits a
lifting.
  Let $G=(V,E)$ be a complete $n$-vertex graph with distinct positive edge
weights. We prove that for $k\in\{1,2,...,n-1\}$, the set consisting of the
edges of all minimum spanning trees (MSTs) over induced subgraphs of $G$ with
$n-k+1$ vertices has at most $nk-\binom{k+1}{2}$ elements. This proves a
conjecture of Goemans and Vondrak \cite{GV2005}. We also show that the result
is a generalization of Mader's Theorem, which bounds the number of edges in any
edge-minimal $k$-connected graph.
  The aim of this paper is to give a constructive proof of one of the basic
theorems of tropical geometry: given a point on a tropical variety (defined
using initial ideals), there exists a Puiseux-valued ``lift'' of this point in
the algebraic variety. This theorem is so fundamental because it justifies why
a tropical variety (defined combinatorially using initial ideals) carries
information about algebraic varieties: it is the image of an algebraic variety
over the Puiseux series under the valuation map. We have implemented the
``lifting algorithm'' using Singular and Gfan if the base field are the
rational numbers. As a byproduct we get an algorithm to compute the Puiseux
expansion of a space curve singularity in (K^{n+1},0).
  In this short note, we give a link between the regularity of the solution $u$
to the 3D Navier-Stokes equation, and the behavior of the direction of the
velocity $u/|u|$. It is shown that the control of $\Div (u/|u|)$ in a suitable
$L_t^p(L_x^q)$ norm is enough to ensure global regularity. The result is
reminiscent of the criterion in terms of the direction of the vorticity,
introduced first by Constantin and Fefferman. But in this case the condition is
not on the vorticity, but on the velocity itself. The proof, based on very
standard methods, relies on a straightforward relation between the divergence
of the direction of the velocity and the growth of energy along streamlines.
  We prove that the packing dimension of any mean porous Radon measure on
$\mathbb R^d$ may be estimated from above by a function which depends on mean
porosity. The upper bound tends to $d-1$ as mean porosity tends to its maximum
value. This result was stated in \cite{BS}, and in a weaker form in \cite{JJ1},
but the proofs are not correct. Quite surprisingly, it turns out that mean
porous measures are not necessarily approximable by mean porous sets. We verify
this by constructing an example of a mean porous measure $\mu$ on $\mathbb R$
such that $\mu(A)=0$ for all mean porous sets $A\subset\mathbb R$.
  We introduce the notion of the descent set polynomial as an alternative way
of encoding the sizes of descent classes of permutations. Descent set
polynomials exhibit interesting factorization patterns. We explore the question
of when particular cyclotomic factors divide these polynomials. As an instance
we deduce that the proportion of odd entries in the descent set statistics in
the symmetric group S_n only depends on the number on 1's in the binary
expansion of n. We observe similar properties for the signed descent set
statistics.
  A system of one-dimensional Brownian motions (BMs) conditioned never to
collide with each other is realized as (i) Dyson's BM model, which is a process
of eigenvalues of hermitian matrix-valued diffusion process in the Gaussian
unitary ensemble (GUE), and as (ii) the $h$-transform of absorbing BM in a Weyl
chamber, where the harmonic function $h$ is the product of differences of
variables (the Vandermonde determinant). The Karlin-McGregor formula gives
determinantal expression to the transition probability density of absorbing BM.
We show from the Karlin-McGregor formula, if the initial state is in the
eigenvalue distribution of GUE, the noncolliding BM is a determinantal process,
in the sense that any multitime correlation function is given by a determinant
specified by a matrix-kernel. By taking appropriate scaling limits, spatially
homogeneous and inhomogeneous infinite determinantal processes are derived. We
note that the determinantal processes related with noncolliding particle
systems have a feature in common such that the matrix-kernels are expressed
using spectral projections of appropriate effective Hamiltonians. On the common
structure of matrix-kernels, continuity of processes in time is proved and
general property of the determinantal processes is discussed.
  A general theory of vector-valued modular functions, holomorphic in the upper
half-plane, is presented for finite dimensional representations of the modular
group. This also provides a description of vector-valued modular forms of
arbitrary half-integer weight. It is shown that the space of these modular
functions is spanned, as a module over the polynomials in J, by the columns of
a matrix that satisfies an abstract hypergeometric equation, providing a simple
solution of the Riemann-Hilbert problem for representations of the modular
group. Restrictions on the coefficients of this differential equation implied
by analyticity are discussed, and an inversion formula is presented that allows
the determination of an arbitrary vector-valued modular function from its
singular behavior. Questions of rationality and positivity of expansion
coefficients are addressed. Closed expressions for the number of vector-valued
modular forms of half-integer weight are given, and the general theory is
illustrated on simple examples.
  Ces\`aro $(C,\delta)$ means are studied for orthogonal expansions with
respect to the weight function $\prod_{i=1}^{d}|x_i|^{2\k_i}$ on the unit
sphere, and for the corresponding weight functions on the unit ball and the
Jacobi weight on the simplex. A sharp pointwise estimate is established for the
$(C,\d)$ kernel with $\d > -1$ and for the kernel of the projection operator,
which allows us to derive the exact order for the norm of the
  Ces\`aro means and the projection operator on these domains.
  The first order nonlinear ODE d phi(t)/d t + sin phi(t)=B+A cos(omega t),
(A,B,omega are real constants) is investigated. Its general solution is derived
in the case of the choice of parameters ensuring the phase-lock mode. It is
represented in terms of Floquet solution of double confluent Heun equation.
  Recently in \cite{jss1}, the authors have given a method for calculation of
the effective resistance (resistance distance) on distance-regular networks,
where the calculation was based on stratification introduced in \cite{js} and
Stieltjes transform of the spectral distribution (Stieltjes function)
associated with the network. Also, in Ref. \cite{jss1} it has been shown that
the resistance distances between a node $\alpha$ and all nodes $\beta$
belonging to the same stratum with respect to the $\alpha$
($R_{\alpha\beta^{(i)}}$, $\beta$ belonging to the $i$-th stratum with respect
to the $\alpha$) are the same. In this work, an algorithm for recursive
calculation of the resistance distances in an arbitrary distance-regular
resistor network is provided, where the derivation of the algorithm is based on
the Bose-Mesner algebra, stratification of the network, spectral techniques and
Christoffel-Darboux identity. It is shown that the effective resistance on a
distance-regular network is an strictly increasing function of the shortest
path distance defined on the network. In the other words, the two-point
resistance $R_{\alpha\beta^{(m+1)}}$ is strictly larger than
$R_{\alpha\beta^{(m)}}$. The link between the resistance distance and random
walks on distance-regular networks is discussed, where the average commute time
(CT) and its square root (called Euclidean commute time (ECT)) as a distance
are related to the effective resistance. Finally, for some important examples
of finite distance- regular networks, the resistance distances are calculated.
  {\bf Keywords: resistance distance, association scheme, stratification,
distance-regular networks, Christoffel-Darboux identity}
  {\bf PACs Index: 01.55.+b, 02.10.Yn}
  Let $\Tt$ be an aperiodic and repetitive tiling of $\RM^d$ with finite local
complexity. We present a spectral sequence that converges to the $K$-theory of
$\Tt$ with $E_2$-page given by a new cohomology that will be called PV in
reference to the Pimsner-Voiculescu exact sequence. It is a generalization of
the Serre spectral sequence. The PV cohomology of $\Tt$ generalizes the
cohomology of the base space of a fibration with local coefficients in the
$K$-theory of its fiber. We prove that it is isomorphic to the \v{C}ech
cohomology of the hull of $\Tt$ (a compactification of the family of its
translates).
  We consider the problem of quantization of classical soliton integrable
systems, such as the KdV hierarchy, in the framework of a general formalism of
Gaudin models associated to affine Kac--Moody algebras. Our experience with the
Gaudin models associated to finite-dimensional simple Lie algebras suggests
that the common eigenvalues of the mutually commuting quantum Hamiltonians in a
model associated to an affine algebra should be encoded by affine opers
associated to the Langlands dual affine algebra. This leads us to some concrete
predictions for the spectra of the quantum Hamiltonians of the soliton systems.
In particular, for the KdV system the corresponding affine opers may be
expressed as Schroedinger operators with spectral parameter, and our
predictions in this case match those recently made by Bazhanov, Lukyanov and
Zamolodchikov. This suggests that this and other recently found examples of the
correspondence between quantum integrals of motion and differential operators
may be viewed as special cases of the Langlands duality.
  In this paper we attempt to reconstruct one of the last projects of Volodya
Geyler which remained unfinished. We study motion of a quantum particle in the
plane to which a halfline lead is attached assuming that the particle has spin
$\frac12$ and the plane component of the Hamiltonian contains a spin-orbit
interaction of either Rashba or Dresselhaus type. We construct the class of
admissible Hamiltonians and derive an explicit expression for the Green
function applying it to the scattering in such a system.
  An elegant quaternionic formulation is given for the Lagrangian advection
equation for velocity vector potential in fluid dynamics. At first we study the
topological significance of a restricted conserved quantity viz.,
stream-helicity and later more realistic configuration of open streamlines is
figured out. Also, using Clebsch parameterisation of the velocity vector
potential yet another physical significance for the stream-helicity is
provided. Finally we give a Nambu-Poisson formalism of the Lagrangian advection
equation for velocity vector potential.
  In this paper we give an algorithmic characterization of rank two locally
nilpotent derivations in dimension three. Together with an algorithm for
computing the plinth ideal, this gives a method for computing the rank of a
locally nilpotent derivation in dimension three.
  In this paper we give an algorithm to recognize triangulable locally
nilpotent derivations in dimension three. In case the given derivation is
triangulable, our method produces a coordinate system in which it exhibits a
triangular form.
  In this paper we obtain a stability theorem of generalized Kahler structures
with one pure spinor under small deformations of generalized complex
structures. (This is analogous to the stability theorem of Kahler manifolds by
Kodaira-Spencer.) We apply the stability theorem to a class of compact Kahler
manifolds which admits deformations to generalized complex manifolds and obtain
non-trivial generalized Kahler structures on Fano surfaces and toric Kahler
manifolds. In particular, we show that holomorphic Poisson structures on a
Kahler manifold induce deformations of generalized Kahler structures.
  It is shown that Schroedinger operators, with potentials along the shift
embedding of Lebesgue almost every interval exchange transformations, have
Cantor spectrum of measure zero and pure singular continuous for Lebesgue
almost all points of the interval.
  Nondegenerate forms N of degree d on a unital nonassociative algebra A over a
ring R which permit composition, i.e., satisfy N(1)=1 and N(xy)=N(x)N(y) for
all x,y in A, are studied. These forms were first classified by Schafer over
fields of characteristic 0 or >d. We investigate cubic and quartic
nondegenerate forms which permit composition over certain rings and curves.
Classes of highly degenerate cubic forms N over fields which permit composition
are constructed.
  In this paper we investigate real convex-transitive Banach spaces X, which
admit a 1-dimensional bicontractive projection P on X. Various mild conditions
regarding the weak topology and the geometry of the norm are provided, which
guarantee that such an X is in fact isometrically a Hilbert space. The results
obtained can be regarded as partial answers to the well-known Banach-Mazur
rotation problem, as well as to a question posed by B. Randrianantoanina in
2002 about convex-transitive spaces.
  It is shown that all important features of a $\mathrm{C}^*$-algebraic quantum
group $(A,\Delta)$ defined by a modular multiplicative $W$ depend only on the
pair $(A,\Delta)$ rather than the multiplicative unitary operator $W$. The
proof is based on thorough study of representations of quantum groups. As an
application we present a construction and study properties of the universal
dual of a quantum group defined by a modular multiplicative unitary - without
assuming existence of Haar weights.
  Based on Planck's blackbody equation it is argued that a single mode light
pulse, with a large number of photons, carries one entropy unit. Similarly, an
empty radiation mode carries no entropy. In this case, the calculated entropy
that a coded sequence of light pulses is carrying is simply the Gibbs mixing
entropy, which is identical to the logical Shannon information. This approach
is supported by a demonstration that information transmission and
amplification, by a sequence of light pulses in an optical fiber, is a classic
Carnot machine comprising of two isothermals and two adiabatic. Therefore it is
concluded that entropy under certain conditions is information.
  An adjoint pair of contravariant functors between abelian categories can be
extended to the adjoint pair of their derived functors in the associated
derived categories. We describe the reflexive complexes and interpret the
achieved results in terms of objects of the initial abelian categories. In
particular we prove that, for functors of any finite cohomological dimension,
the objects of the initial abelian categories which are reflexive as stalk
complexes form the largest class where a Cotilting Theorem in the sense of
Colby and Fuller works.
  The commutation relations of the generalized Pauli operators of a
qubit-qutrit system are discussed in the newly established graph-theoretic and
finite-geometrical settings. The dual of the Pauli graph of this system is
found to be isomorphic to the projective line over the product ring Z2xZ3. A
"peculiar" feature in comparison with two-qubits is that two distinct
points/operators can be joined by more than one line. The multi-line property
is shown to be also present in the graphs/geometries characterizing two-qutrit
and three-qubit Pauli operators' space and surmised to be exhibited by any
other higher-level quantum system.
  Let \Theta be a smooth compact oriented manifold without boundary, embedded
in a euclidean space and let \gamma be a smooth map \Theta into a riemannian
manifold \Lambda. An unknown state \theta \in \Theta is observed via
X=\theta+\epsilon \xi where \epsilon>0 is a small parameter and \xi is a white
Gaussian noise. For a given smooth prior on \Theta and smooth estimator g of
the map \gamma we derive a second-order asymptotic expansion for the related
Bayesian risk. The calculation involves the geometry of the underlying spaces
\Theta and \Lambda, in particular, the integration-by-parts formula. Using this
result, a second-order minimax estimator of \gamma is found based on the modern
theory of harmonic maps and hypo-elliptic differential operators.
  We prove the inequality $$ \as A\ast_CB\le\max\{\as A,\as B,\as C+1\} $$ and
we apply this inequality to show that the asymptotic dimension of any
right-angled Coxeter group does not exceed the dimension of its Davis' complex.
  The article contains several observations on spherical harmonics and their
nodal sets: a construction for harmonics with prescribed zeroes; a kind of
canonical representation of this type for harmonics on $\bbS^2$; upper and
lower bounds for nodal length and inner radius (the upper bounds are sharp);
precise upper bound for the number of common zeroes of two spherical harmonics
on $\bbS^2$; the mean Hausdorff measure on the intersection of $k$ nodal sets
for harmonics of different degrees on $\bbS^m$, where $k\leq m$ (in particular,
the mean number of common zeroes of $m$ harmonics).
  Dyson's integration theorem is widely used in the computation of eigenvalue
correlation functions in Random Matrix Theory. Here we focus on the variant of
the theorem for determinants, relevant for the unitary ensembles with Dyson
index beta = 2. We derive a formula reducing the (n-k)-fold integral of an n x
n determinant of a kernel of two sets of arbitrary functions to a determinant
of size k x k. Our generalisation allows for sets of functions that are not
orthogonal or bi-orthogonal with respect to the integration measure. In the
special case of orthogonal functions Dyson's theorem is recovered.
  The method for the recursive calculation of the effective potential is
applied successfully in case of weak coupling limit (g tend to zero) to a
multidimensional complex cubic potential. In strong-coupling limit (g tend to
infinity), the result is resumed using the variational perturbation theory
(VPT). It is found that the convergence of VPT-results approaches those
expected.
  In this notes unbounded regular operators on Hilbert $C^*$-modules over
arbitrary $C^*$-algebras are discussed. A densely defined operator $t$
possesses an adjoint operator if the graph of $t$ is an orthogonal summand.
Moreover, for a densely defined operator $t$ the graph of $t$ is orthogonally
complemented and the range of $P_FP_{G(t)^\bot}$ is dense in its biorthogonal
complement if and only if $t$ is regular. For a given $C^*$-algebra $\mathcal
A$ any densely defined $\mathcal A$-linear closed operator $t$ between Hilbert
$C^*$-modules is regular, if and only if any densely defined $\mathcal
A$-linear closed operator $t$ between Hilbert $C^*$-modules admits a densely
defined adjoint operator, if and only if $\mathcal A$ is a $C^*$-algebra of
compact operators. Some further characterizations of closed and regular modular
operators are obtained.
  Changes 1: Improved results, corrected misprints, added references. Accepted
by J. Operator Theory, August 2007 / Changes 2: Filled gap in the proof of Thm.
3.1, changes in the formulations of Cor. 3.2 and Thm. 3.4, updated references
and address of the second author.
  An exactly solvable position-dependent mass Schr\"odinger equation in two
dimensions, depicting a particle moving in a semi-infinite layer, is
re-examined in the light of recent theories describing superintegrable
two-dimensional systems with integrals of motion that are quadratic functions
of the momenta. To get the energy spectrum a quadratic algebra approach is used
together with a realization in terms of deformed parafermionic oscillator
operators. In this process, the importance of supplementing algebraic
considerations with a proper treatment of boundary conditions for selecting
physical wavefunctions is stressed. Some new results for matrix elements are
derived. This example emphasizes the interest of a quadratic algebra approach
to position-dependent mass Schr\"odinger equations.
  We show that for each discrete group G, the rational assembly map
  K_*(BG) \otimes Q \to K_*(C*_{max} G) \otimes \Q is injective on classes dual
to the subring generated by cohomology classes of degree at most 2 (identifying
rational K-homology and homology via the Chern character). Our result implies
homotopy invariance of higher signatures associated to these cohomology
classes. This consequence was first established by Connes-Gromov-Moscovici and
Mathai.
  Our approach is based on the construction of flat twisting bundles out of
sequences of almost flat bundles as first described in our previous work. In
contrast to the argument of Mathai, our approach is independent of (and indeed
gives a new proof of) the result of Hilsum-Skandalis on the homotopy invariance
of the index of the signature operator twisted with bundles of small curvature.
  Molecular spiders are synthetic bio-molecular systems which have "legs" made
of short single-stranded segments of DNA. Spiders move on a surface covered
with single-stranded DNA segments complementary to legs. Different mappings are
established between various models of spiders and simple exclusion processes.
For spiders with simple gait and varying number of legs we compute the
diffusion coefficient; when the hopping is biased we also compute their
velocity.
  Synthetic bio-molecular spiders with "legs" made of single-stranded segments
of DNA can move on a surface which is also covered by single-stranded segments
of DNA complementary to the leg DNA. In experimental realizations, when a leg
detaches from a segment of the surface for the first time it alters that
segment, and legs subsequently bound to these altered segments more weakly.
Inspired by these experiments we investigate spiders moving along a
one-dimensional substrate, whose legs leave newly visited sites at a slower
rate than revisited sites. For a random walk (one-leg spider) the slowdown does
not effect the long time behavior. For a bipedal spider, however, the slowdown
generates an effective bias towards unvisited sites, and the spider behaves
similarly to the excited walk. Surprisingly, the slowing down of the spider at
new sites increases the diffusion coefficient and accelerates the growth of the
number of visited sites.
  A generalization of the usual ideles group is proposed, namely, we construct
certain adelic complexes for sheaves of $K$-groups on schemes. More generally,
such complexes are defined for any abelian sheaf on a scheme. We focus on the
case when the sheaf is associated to the presheaf of a homology theory with
certain natural axioms, satisfied by $K$-theory. In this case it is proven that
the adelic complex provides a flasque resolution for the above sheaf and that
the natural morphism to the Gersten complex is a quasiisomorphism. The main
advantage of the new adelic resolution is that it is contravariant and
multiplicative in contrast to the Gersten resolution. In particular, this
allows to reprove that the intersection in Chow groups coincides up to sign
with the natural product in the corresponding $K$-cohomology groups. Also, we
show that the Weil pairing can be expressed as a Massey triple product in
$K$-cohomology groups with certain indices.
  We present a mathematically justifiable, computationally simple, sample
eigenvalue based procedure for estimating the number of high-dimensional
signals in white noise using relatively few samples. The main motivation for
considering a sample eigenvalue based scheme is the computational simplicity
and the robustness to eigenvector modelling errors which are can adversely
impact the performance of estimators that exploit information in the sample
eigenvectors.
  There is, however, a price we pay by discarding the information in the sample
eigenvectors; we highlight a fundamental asymptotic limit of sample eigenvalue
based detection of weak/closely spaced high-dimensional signals from a limited
sample size. This motivates our heuristic definition of the effective number of
identifiable signals which is equal to the number of "signal" eigenvalues of
the population covariance matrix which exceed the noise variance by a factor
strictly greater than 1+sqrt(Dimensionality of the system/Sample size). The
fundamental asymptotic limit brings into sharp focus why, when there are too
few samples available so that the effective number of signals is less than the
actual number of signals, underestimation of the model order is unavoidable (in
an asymptotic sense) when using any sample eigenvalue based detection scheme,
including the one proposed herein. The analysis reveals why adding more sensors
can only exacerbate the situation. Numerical simulations are used to
demonstrate that the proposed estimator consistently estimates the true number
of signals in the dimension fixed, large sample size limit and the effective
number of identifiable signals in the large dimension, large sample size limit.
  In this paper, we study a (p-adic) geometric analogue for abelian varieties
over a function field of characteristic p of the cyclotomic Iwasawa theory and
the non-commutative Iwasawa theory for abelian varieties over a number field
initiated by Mazur and Coates respectively. We will prove some analogue of the
principal results obtained in the case over a number field and we study new
phenomena which did not happen in the case of number field case. We propose
also a conjecture which might be considered as a counterpart of the principal
conjecture in the case over a number field. \par This is a preprint which is
distributed since 2005 which is still in the process of submision. Following a
recent modification of some technical mistakes in the previous version of the
paper as well as an amelioration of the presentation of the paper, we decide
wider distribution via the archive.
  The notion of $\times$-homotopy from \cite{DocHom} is investigated in the
context of the category of pointed graphs. The main result is a long exact
sequence that relates the higher homotopy groups of the space $\Hom_*(G,H)$
with the homotopy groups of $\Hom_*(G,H^I)$. Here $\Hom_*(G,H)$ is a space
which parametrizes pointed graph maps from $G$ to $H$ (a pointed version of the
usual $\Hom$ complex), and $H^I$ is the graph of based paths in $H$. As a
corollary it is shown that $\pi_i \big(\Hom_*(G,H) \big) \cong [G,\Omega^i
H]_{\times}$, where $\Omega H$ is the graph of based closed paths in $H$ and
$[G,K]_{\times}$ is the set of $\times$-homotopy classes of pointed graph maps
from $G$ to $K$. This is similar in spirit to the results of \cite{BBLL}, where
the authors seek a space whose homotopy groups encode a similarly defined
homotopy theory for graphs. The categorical connections to those constructions
are discussed.
  Dehornoy showed that the Artin braid groups $B_n$ are left-orderable. This
ordering is discrete, but we show that, for $n >2$ the Dehornoy ordering, when
restricted to certain natural subgroups, becomes a dense ordering. Among
subgroups which arise are the commutator subgroup and the kernel of the Burau
representation (for those $n$ for which the kernel is nontrivial). These
results follow from a characterization of least positive elements of any normal
subgroup of $B_n$ which is discretely ordered by the Dehornoy ordering.
  We study boundary regularity for conformally compact Einstein metrics in even
dimensions by generalizing the ideas of Michael Anderson. Our method of
approach is to view the vanishing of the Ambient Obstruction tensor as an nth
order system of equations for the components of a compactification of the given
metric. This, together with boundary conditions that the compactification is
shown to satisfy provide enough information to apply classical boundary
regularity results. These results then provide local and global versions of
finite boundary regularity for the components of the compactification.
  Let $C_a$ be the central Cantor set obtained by removing a central interval
of length $1-2a$ from the unit interval, and continuing this process
inductively on each of the remaining two intervals. We prove that if $\log
b/\log a$ is irrational, then \[ \dim(C_a+C_b) = \min(\dim(C_a) + \dim(C_b),1),
\] where $\dim$ is Hausdorff dimension. More generally, given two self-similar
sets $K,K'$ in $\RR$ and a scaling parameter $s>0$, if the dimension of the
arithmetic sum $K+sK'$ is strictly smaller than $\dim(K)+\dim(K') \le 1$
(``geometric resonance''), then there exists $r<1$ such that all contraction
ratios of the similitudes defining $K$ and $K'$ are powers of $r$ (``algebraic
resonance''). Our method also yields a new result on the projections of planar
self-similar sets generated by an iterated function system that includes a
scaled irrational rotation.
  We give a purely geometric categorification of tensor products of
finite-dimensional simple $U_q(sl_2)$-modules and $R$-matrices on them. The
work is developed in the framework of category of perverse sheaves and the
categorification theorems are understood as consequences of Deligne's theory of
weights.
  Dendriform structures arise naturally in algebraic combinatorics (where they
allow, for example, the splitting of the shuffle product into two pieces) and
through Rota-Baxter algebra structures (the latter appear, among others, in
differential systems and in the renormalization process of pQFT). We prove new
combinatorial identities in dendriform dialgebras that appear to be strongly
related to classical phenomena, such as the combinatorics of Lyndon words,
rewriting rules in Lie algebras, or the fine structure of the
Malvenuto-Reutenauer algebra. One of these identities is an abstract
noncommutative, dendriform, generalization of the Bohnenblust-Spitzer identity
and of an identity involving iterated Chen integrals due to C.S. Lam.
  We provide a combinatorial description of exclusion statistics in terms of
minimal difference $p$ partitions. We compute the probability distribution of
the number of parts in a random minimal $p$ partition. It is shown that the
bosonic point $ p=0$ is a repulsive fixed point for which the limiting
distribution has a Gumbel form. For all positive $p$ the distribution is shown
to be Gaussian.
  We define generalized vector fields, and contraction and Lie derivatives with
respect to them. Generalized commutators are also defined.
  We consider a class of real random polynomials, indexed by an integer d, of
large degree n and focus on the number of real roots of such random
polynomials. The probability that such polynomials have no real root in the
interval [0,1] decays as a power law n^{-\theta(d)} where \theta(d)>0 is the
exponent associated to the decay of the persistence probability for the
diffusion equation with random initial conditions in space dimension d. For n
even, the probability that such polynomials have no root on the full real axis
decays as n^{-2(\theta(d) + \theta(2))}. For d=1, this connection allows for a
physical realization of real random polynomials. We further show that the
probability that such polynomials have exactly k real roots in [0,1] has an
unusual scaling form given by n^{-\tilde \phi(k/\log n)} where \tilde \phi(x)
is a universal large deviation function.
  We establish a Poincar\'e-Dulac theorem for sequences (G_n)_n of holomorphic
contractions whose differentials d_0 G_n split regularly. The resonant
relations determining the normal forms hold on the moduli of the exponential
rates of contraction. Our results are actually stated in the framework of
bundle maps.
  Such sequences of holomorphic contractions appear naturally as iterated
inverse branches of endomorphisms of CP(k). In this context, our normalization
result allows to precisely estimate the distortions of ellipsoids along typical
orbits. As an application, we show how the Lyapunov exponents of the
equilibrium measure are approximated in terms of the multipliers of the
repulsive cycles.
  Let $C_b(K)$ be the set of all bounded continuous (real or complex) functions
on a complete metric space $K$ and $A$ a closed subspace of $C_b(K)$. Using the
variational method, it is shown that the set of all strong peak functions in
$A$ is dense if and only if the set of all strong peak points is a norming
subset of $A$. As a corollary we show that if $X$ is a locally uniformly
convex, complex Banach space, then the set of all strong peak functions in
$\mathcal{A}(B_X)$ is a dense $G_\delta$ subset. Moreover if $X$ is separable,
smooth and locally uniformly convex, then the set of all norm and numerical
strong peak functions in $\mathcal{A}_u(B_X:X)$ is a dense $G_\delta$ subset.
In case that a set of uniformly strongly exposed points of a (real or complex)
Banach space $X$ is a norming subset of $\mathcal{P}({}^n X)$ for some $n\ge
1$, then the set of all strongly norm attaining elements in $\mathcal{P}({}^n
X)$ is dense, in particular, the set of all points at which the norm of
$\mathcal{P}({}^n X)$ is Fr\'echet differentiable is a dense $G_\delta$ subset.
  We define Floer homology theories for oriented, singular knots in S^3 and
show that one of these theories can be defined combinatorially for planar
singular knots.
  We prove a duality theorem for graded algebras over a field that implies
several known duality results : graded local duality, versions of Serre duality
for local cohomology and of Suzuki duality for generalized local cohomology,
and Herzog-Rahimi bigraded duality.
  In the matrix product states approach to $n$ species diffusion processes the
stationary probability distribution is expressed as a matrix product state with
respect to a quadratic algebra determined by the dynamics of the process. The
quadratic algebra defines a noncommutative space with a $SU_q(n)$ quantum group
action as its symmetry. Boundary processes amount to the appearance of
parameter dependent linear terms in the algebraic relations and lead to a
reduction of the $SU_q(n)$ symmetry. We argue that the boundary operators of
the asymmetric simple exclusion process generate a tridiagonal algebra whose
irriducible representations are expressed in terms of the Askey-Wilson
polynomials. The Askey-Wilson algebra arises as a symmetry of the boundary
problem and allows to solve the model exactly.
  We consider some general facts concerning convergence P_{n}-Q_{n}\to 0 as
n\to \infty, where P_{n} and Q_{n} are probability measures in a complete
separable metric space. The main point is that the sequences {P_{n}} and
{Q_{n}} are not assumed to be tight. We compare different possible definitions
of the above convergence, and establish some general properties.
  Toda equations associated with twisted loop groups are considered. Such
equations are specified by Z-gradations of the corresponding twisted loop Lie
algebras. The classification of Toda equations related to twisted loop Lie
algebras with integrable Z-gradations is discussed.
  The nilpotent bicone of a finite dimensional complex reductive Lie algebra g
is the subset of elements in g x g whose subspace generated by the components
is contained in the nilpotent cone of g. The main result of this note is that
the nilpotent bicone is a complete intersection. This affirmatively answers a
conjecture of Kraft-Wallach concerning the nullcone. In addition, we introduce
and study the characteristic submodule of g. The properties of the nilpotent
bicone and the characteristic submodule are known to be very important for the
understanding of the commuting variety and its ideal of definition. In order to
study the nilpotent bicone, we introduce another subvariety, the principal
bicone. The nilpotent bicone, as well as the principal bicone, are linked to
jet schemes. We study their dimensions using arguments from motivic
integration. Namely, we follow methods developed in
http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0008002v5 .
  We construct an abelian category A(G) of sheaves over a category of closed
subgroups of the r-torus G and show it is of finite injective dimension. It can
be used as a model for rational $G$-spectra in the sense that there is a
homology theory
  \piA_*: G-spectra/Q --> A(G) on rational G-spectra with values in A(G), and
the associated Adams spectral sequence converges for all rational $G$-spectra
and collapses at a finite stage.
  The circle-equivariant spectrum MString_C is the equivariant analogue of the
cobordism spectrum MU<6> of stably almost complex manifolds with c_1=c_2=0.
Given a rational elliptic curve C, the second author has defined a ring
T-spectrum EC representing the associated T-equivariant elliptic cohomology.
The core of the present paper is the construction, when C is a complex elliptic
curve, of a map of ring T-spectra
  MString_C --> EC which is the rational equivariant analogue of the sigma
orientation of Ando-Hopkins-Strickland. We support this by a theory of
characteristic classes for calculation, and a conceptual description in terms
of algebraic geometry. In particular, we prove a conjecture of the first
author.
  Fomin (1994) introduced a notion of duality between two graded graphs on the
same set of vertices. He also introduced a generalization to dual graded graphs
of the classical Robinson-Schensted-Knuth algorithm. We show how Fomin's
approach applies to the binary search tree insertion algorithm also known as
sylvester insertion, and to the hypoplactic insertion algorithm.
  We classify finite dimensional simple spherical representations of rational
double affine Hecke algebras, and we study a remarkable family of finite
dimensional simple spherical representations of double affine Hecke algebras.
  An odd meromorphic function f(s) is constructed from the Riemann
zeta-function evaluated at one-half plus s. We determine the two-sided Laplace
transform representation of f(s) on open vertical strips, V'(4w), disjoint from
the (translated) critical strip. V'(4w) consists of all s with real part,
Re(s), of absolute value greater than one-half and Re(s) between successive
poles 4w, 4(w + 1) of f(s), with w an integer. The corresponding Laplace
density is related to confluent hypergeometric functions. That density is shown
to be positive for nonzero w other than -1. Those results are obtained without
relying on any unproven hypothesis. They are used together with the Riemann
hypothesis and hypotheses advanced by the author to obtain conditional results
concerning the zeta-function. Those results are presented in Part I. Their
proofs are derived in Parts III-V. A metric geometry expression of the
positivity of the Laplace densities arising is established in Part VI.
  We consider processes with second order long range dependence resulting from
heavy tailed durations. We refer to this phenomenon as duration-driven long
range dependence (DDLRD), as opposed to the more widely studied linear long
range dependence based on fractional differencing of an $iid$ process. We
consider in detail two specific processes having DDLRD, originally presented in
Taqqu and Levy (1986), and Parke (1999). For these processes, we obtain the
limiting distribution of suitably standardized discrete Fourier transforms
(DFTs) and sample autocovariances. At low frequencies, the standardized DFTs
converge to a stable law, as do the standardized sample autocovariances at
fixed lags. Finite collections of standardized sample autocovariances at a
fixed set of lags converge to a degenerate distribution. The standardized DFTs
at high frequencies converge to a Gaussian law. Our asymptotic results are
strikingly similar for the two DDLRD processes studied. We calibrate our
asymptotic results with a simulation study which also investigates the
properties of the semiparametric log periodogram regression estimator of the
memory parameter.
  We give a simple, explicit, sufficient condition for the existence of a
sector of minimal growth for second order regular singular differential
operators on graphs. We specifically consider operators with a singular
potential of Coulomb type and base our analysis on the theory of elliptic cone
operators.
  A theory of chiral lipid membranes is proposed on the basis of a concise free
energy density which includes the contributions of the bending and the surface
tension of membranes, as well as the chirality and orientational variation of
tilting molecules. This theory is consistent with the previous experiments
[J.M. Schnur \textit{et al.}, Science \textbf{264}, 945 (1994); M.S. Spector
\textit{et al.}, Langmuir \textbf{14}, 3493 (1998); Y. Zhao, \textit{et al.},
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA \textbf{102}, 7438 (2005)] on self-assembled chiral
lipid membranes of DC$_{8,9}$PC. A torus with the ratio between its two
generated radii larger than $\sqrt{2}$ is predicted from the Euler-Lagrange
equations. It is found that tubules with helically modulated tilting state are
not admitted by the Euler-Lagrange equations, and that they are less
energetically favorable than helical ripples in tubules. The pitch angles of
helical ripples are theoretically estimated to be about 0$^\circ$ and
35$^\circ$, which are close to the most frequent values 5$^\circ$ and
28$^\circ$ observed in the experiment [N. Mahajan \textit{et al.}, Langmuir
\textbf{22}, 1973 (2006)]. Additionally, the present theory can explain twisted
ribbons of achiral cationic amphiphiles interacting with chiral tartrate
counterions. The ratio between the width and pitch of twisted ribbons is
predicted to be proportional to the relative concentration difference of left-
and right-handed enantiomers in the low relative concentration difference
region, which is in good agreement with the experiment [R. Oda \textit{et al.},
Nature (London) \textbf{399}, 566 (1999)].
  Consider a smooth log Fano variety over the function field of a curve.
Suppose that the boundary has positive normal bundle. Choose an integral model
over the curve. Then integral points are Zariski dense, after removing an
explicit finite set of points on the base curve.
  We give an account of the construction of exterior differential systems based
on the notion of tableaux over Lie algebras as developed in [Comm. Anal. Geom
14 (2006), 475-496; math.DG/0412169]. The definition of a tableau over a Lie
algebra is revisited and extended in the light of the formalism of the Spencer
cohomology; the question of involutiveness for the associated systems and their
prolongations is addressed; examples are discussed.
  In this paper we compute certain two-point integrals over a moduli space of
stable maps into projective space. Computation of one-point analogues of these
integrals constitutes a proof of mirror symmetry for genus-zero one-point
Gromov-Witten invariants of projective hypersurfaces. The integrals computed in
this paper constitute a significant portion in the proof of mirror symmetry for
genus-one GW-invariants completed in a separate paper. These integrals also
provide explicit mirror formulas for genus-zero two-point GW-invariants of
projective hypersurfaces. The approach described in this paper leads to a
reconstruction algorithm for all genus-zero GW-invariants of projective
hypersurfaces.
  We obtain complete geometric invariants of cobordism classes of oriented
simple fold maps of (n+1)-dimensional manifolds into an n-dimensional manifold
N in terms of immersions with prescribed normal bundles. We compute that this
cobordism group of simple fold maps is isomorphic to the direct sum of the
(n-1)th stable homotopy group of spheres and the (n-1)th stable homotopy group
of the infinite dimensional projective space. By using geometric invariants
defined in the author's earlier works, we also describe the natural map of the
simple fold cobordism group to the fold cobordism group by natural
homomorphisms between cobordism groups of immersions. We also compute the ranks
of the oriented (right-left) bordism groups of simple fold maps.
  We prove that the generating polynomials of partitions of an $n$-element set
into non-singleton blocks, counted by the number of blocks, have real roots
only and we study the asymptotic behavior of the leftmost roots. We apply this
information to find the most likely number of blocks.
  A foliation is R-covered if the leaf space in the universal cover is
homeomorphic to the real numbers. We show that, up to topological conjugacy,
there are at most two pseudo-Anosov flows transverse to such a foliation. If
there are two, then the foliation is weakly conjugate to the the stable
foliation of an R-covered Anosov flow. The proof uses the universal circle to
R-covered foliations.
  We review our recent formulation of Colombeau type algebras as Hausdorff
sequence spaces with ultranorms, defined by sequences of exponential weights.
We extend previous results and give new perspectives related to echelon type
spaces, possible generalisations, asymptotic algebras, concepts of association,
and applications thereof.
  The (e,n)-complexity functions describe total instability of trajectories in
dynamical systems. They reflect an ability of trajectories going through a
Borel set to diverge on the distance $\epsilon$ during the time interval n.
Behavior of the (e, n)-complexity functions as n goes to infinity is reflected
in the properties of special measures. These measures are constructed as limits
of atomic measures supported at points of (e,n)-separated sets. We study such
measures. In particular, we prove that they are invariant if the
(e,n)-complexity function grows subexponentially.
  Keywords: Topological entropy, complexity functions, separability.
  Let $(M,g,\si)$ be a compact spin manifold of dimension $n \geq 2$. Let
$\lambda_1^+(\tilde{g})$ be the smallest positive eigenvalue of the Dirac
operator in the metric $\tilde{g} \in [g]$ conformal to $g$. We then define
$\lamin(M,[g],\si) = \inf_{\tilde{g} \in [g]} \lambda_1^+(\tilde{g})
\Vol(M,\tilde{g})^{1/n} $. We show that $0< \lamin(M,[g],\si) \leq
\lamin(\mS^n)$. %=\frac{n}{2} \om_n^{{1 \over n}}$ . We find sufficient
conditions for which we obtain strict inequality $\lamin(M,[g],\si) <
\lamin(\mS^n)$. This strict inequality has applications to conformal spin
geometry.
  -----
  Soit $(M,g,\si)$ une vari\'et\'e spinorielle compacte de dimension $n \geq
2$. %Si $\tilde{g} \in [g]$ est une m\'etrique conforme \`a $g$, On note
$\lambda_1^+(\tilde{g})$ la plus petite valeur propre $>0$ de l'op\'erateur de
Dirac dans la m\'etrique $\tilde{g} \in [g]$ conforme \`a $g$. On d\'efinit
$\lamin(M,[g],\si) = \inf_{\tilde{g} \in [g]} \lambda_1^+(\tilde{g})
  \Vol(M,\tilde{g})^{1/n} $. On montre que $0< \lamin(M,[g],\si) \leq
\lamin(\mS^n)$. %= \frac{n}{2} \om_n^{{1 \over n}}$ On trouve des conditions
suffisantes pour lesquelles on obtient l'in\'egalit\'e stricte
$\lamin(M,[g],\si) < \lamin(\mS^n)$. Cette in\'egalit\'e stricte a des
applications en g\'eom\'etrie spinorielle conforme.
  This talk is a write-up on some origins of abstract convexity and afew vexing
limitations on the range of abstraction in convexity.
  In this paper we present a direct perturbative method to solving certain
Fokker-Planck equations, which have constant diffusion coefficients and some
small parameters in the drift coefficients. The method makes use of the
connection between the Fokker-Planck and Schr\"odinger equations. Two examples
are used to illustrate the method. In the first example the drift coefficient
depends only on time but not on space. In the second example we consider the
Uhlenbeck-Ornstein process with a small drift coefficient. These examples show
that the such perturbative approach can be a useful tool to obtain approximate
solutions of Fokker-Planck equations with constant diffusion coefficients.
  We propose a geometric method to measure the wild ramification of a smooth
etale sheaf along the boundary. Using the method, we study the graded quotients
of the logarithmic ramification groups of a local field of positive
characteristic with arbitrary residue field. We also define the characteristic
cycle of an l-adic sheaf, satisfying certain conditions, as a cycle on the
logarithmic cotangent bundle and prove that the intersection with the 0-section
computes the characteristic class, and hence the Euler number.
  Definition 2.1.1 is corrected in v2.
  Let Y=G/L be a flag manifold for a reductive G and K a maximal compact
subgroup of G. We define an equivariant differential operator on G/(L cap K)
playing the role of an equivariant Dolbeault Laplacian when restricted to the
complex manifold G/L, using a distribution transverse to the fibers and
satisfying the Hormander condition. We prove here that this operator is not
maximal hypoelliptic when G=U(p,q).
  In this paper we derive some asymptotic formulas for the $q$-Gamma function
$\Gamma_{q}(z)$ for $q$ tending to 1.
  A binary poset code of codimension M (of cardinality 2^{N-M}, where N is the
code length) can correct maximum M errors. All possible poset metrics that
allow codes of codimension M to be M-, (M-1)- or (M-2)-perfect are described.
Some general conditions on a poset which guarantee the nonexistence of perfect
poset codes are derived; as examples, we prove the nonexistence of R-perfect
poset codes for some R in the case of the crown poset and in the case of the
union of disjoin chains. Index terms: perfect codes, poset codes
  We consider a class of possibly degenerate second order elliptic operators
$\cal
  A$ on $\R^n$. This class includes hypoelliptic
  Ornstein-Uhlenbeck type operators having an additional first order term with
unbounded coefficients. We establish global Schauder estimates in H\"older
spaces both for elliptic equations and for parabolic Cauchy problems involving
${\cal A}$. The H\"older function spaces are defined with respect to a
non-euclidean metric related to the operator $\cal A$.
  We define and study a class of codes obtained from scrolls over curves of any
genus over finite fields. These codes generalize Goppa codes in a natural way,
and the orthogonal complements of these codes belong to the same class. We show
how syndromes of error vectors correspond to certain vector bundle extensions,
and how decoding is associated to finding destabilizing subbundles.
  Consider a homogenized spectral pencil of exactly solvable linear
differential operators $T_{\la}=\sum_{i=0}^k Q_{i}(z)\la^{k-i}\frac
{d^i}{dz^i}$, where each $Q_{i}(z)$ is a polynomial of degree at most $i$ and
$\la$ is the spectral parameter. We show that under mild nondegeneracy
assumptions for all sufficiently large positive integers $n$ there exist
exactly $k$ distinct values $\la_{n,j}$, $1\le j\le k$, of the spectral
parameter $\la$ such that the operator $T_{\la}$ has a polynomial eigenfunction
$p_{n,j}(z)$ of degree $n$. These eigenfunctions split into $k$ different
families according to the asymptotic behavior of their eigenvalues. We
conjecture and prove sequential versions of three fundamental properties: the
limits $\Psi_{j}(z)=\lim_{n\to\infty} \frac{p_{n,j}'(z)}{\la_{n,j}p_{n,j}(z)}$
exist, are analytic and satisfy the algebraic equation $\sum_{i=0}^k Q_{i}(z)
\Psi_{j}^i(z)=0$ almost everywhere in $\bCP$. As a consequence we obtain a
class of algebraic functions possessing a branch near $\infty\in \bCP$ which is
representable as the Cauchy transform of a compactly supported probability
measure.
  The result of this paper is the determination of the cohomology of Artin
groups of type A_n, B_n and \tilde{A}_{n} with non-trivial local coefficients.
The main result is an explicit computation of the cohomology of the Artin group
of type B_n with coefficients over the module \Q[q^{\pm 1},t^{\pm 1}]. Here the
first (n-1) standard generators of the group act by (-q)-multiplication, while
the last one acts by (-t)-multiplication. The proof uses some technical results
from previous papers plus computations over a suitable spectral sequence. The
remaining cases follow from an application of Shapiro's lemma, by considering
some well-known inclusions: we obtain the rational cohomology of the Artin
group of affine type \tilde{A}_{n} as well as the cohomology of the classical
braid group {Br}_{n} with coefficients in the n-dimensional representation
presented in \cite{tong}. The topological counterpart is the explicit
construction of finite CW-complexes endowed with a free action of the Artin
groups, which are known to be K(\pi,1) spaces in some cases (including finite
type groups). Particularly simple formulas for the Euler-characteristic of
these orbit spaces are derived.
  We consider the two-dimensional problem of recovering globally in time the
heat distribution on the surface of a layer inside of a heat conducting body
from two interior temperature measurements. The problem is ill-posed. The
approximation function is represented by a two-dimensional Sinc series and the
error estimate is given.
  We consider the problem of finding a function defined on $(0,\infty)$ from a
countable set of values of its Laplace transform. The problem is severely
ill-posed. We shall use the expansion of the function in a series of Laguerre
polynomials to convert the problem in an analytic interpolation problem. Then,
using the coefficients of Lagrange polynomials we shall construct a stable
approximation solution.
  We describe an invariant of a contact 3-manifold with convex boundary as an
element of Juh\'asz's sutured Floer homology. Our invariant generalizes the
contact invariant in Heegaard Floer homology in the closed case, due to
Ozsv\'ath and Szab\'o.
  This version has some clarifications and new figures.
  We prove that Prym varieties are characterized geometrically by the existence
of a symmetric pair of quadrisecant planes of the associated Kummer variety. We
also show that Prym varieties are characterized by certain (new)
theta-functional equations. For this purpose we construct and study a
difference-differential analog of the Novikov-Veselov hierarchy.
  In this paper we prove that the complement to the affine complex arrangement
of type \widetilde{B}_n is a K(\pi, 1) space. We also compute the cohomology of
the affine Artin group G of type \widetilde{B}_n with coefficients over several
interesting local systems. In particular, we consider the module Q[q^{\pm 1},
t^{\pm 1}], where the first n-standard generators of G act by
(-q)-multiplication while the last generator acts by (-t)-multiplication. Such
representation generalizes the analog 1-parameter representation related to the
bundle structure over the complement to the discriminant hypersurface, endowed
with the monodromy action of the associated Milnor fibre. The cohomology of G
with trivial coefficients is derived from the previous one.
  This paper studies the ergodic capacity of time- and frequency-selective
multipath fading channels in the ultrawideband (UWB) regime when training
signals are used for channel estimation at the receiver. Motivated by recent
measurement results on UWB channels, we propose a model for sparse multipath
channels. A key implication of sparsity is that the independent degrees of
freedom (DoF) in the channel scale sub-linearly with the signal space dimension
(product of signaling duration and bandwidth). Sparsity is captured by the
number of resolvable paths in delay and Doppler. Our analysis is based on a
training and communication scheme that employs signaling over orthogonal
short-time Fourier (STF) basis functions. STF signaling naturally relates
sparsity in delay-Doppler to coherence in time-frequency. We study the impact
of multipath sparsity on two fundamental metrics of spectral efficiency in the
wideband/low-SNR limit introduced by Verdu: first- and second-order optimality
conditions. Recent results by Zheng et. al. have underscored the large gap in
spectral efficiency between coherent and non-coherent extremes and the
importance of channel learning in bridging the gap. Building on these results,
our results lead to the following implications of multipath sparsity: 1) The
coherence requirements are shared in both time and frequency, thereby
significantly relaxing the required scaling in coherence time with SNR; 2)
Sparse multipath channels are asymptotically coherent -- for a given but large
bandwidth, the channel can be learned perfectly and the coherence requirements
for first- and second-order optimality met through sufficiently large signaling
duration; and 3) The requirement of peaky signals in attaining capacity is
eliminated or relaxed in sparse environments.
  In contrast to the prevalent assumption of rich multipath in information
theoretic analysis of wireless channels, physical channels exhibit sparse
multipath, especially at large bandwidths. We propose a model for sparse
multipath fading channels and present results on the impact of sparsity on
non-coherent capacity and reliability in the wideband regime. A key implication
of sparsity is that the statistically independent degrees of freedom in the
channel, that represent the delay-Doppler diversity afforded by multipath,
scale at a sub-linear rate with the signal space dimension (time-bandwidth
product). Our analysis is based on a training-based communication scheme that
uses short-time Fourier (STF) signaling waveforms. Sparsity in delay-Doppler
manifests itself as time-frequency coherence in the STF domain. From a capacity
perspective, sparse channels are asymptotically coherent: the gap between
coherent and non-coherent extremes vanishes in the limit of large signal space
dimension without the need for peaky signaling. From a reliability viewpoint,
there is a fundamental tradeoff between channel diversity and learnability that
can be optimized to maximize the error exponent at any rate by appropriately
choosing the signaling duration as a function of bandwidth.
  We get a local existence result in $H^s$ with $s>3/2$ for second order
quasilinear wave equation with radial initial data in 2+1 dimensions, based on
an improvement of Strichartz estimate in the radial case. Moreover, we get the
corresponding local well-posed result for semilinear wave equation. The
required index of regularity here is 1/4 less than the index 7/4, which is
essentially sharp in general.
  We consider the problem of sequential decision making on random fields
corrupted by noise. In this scenario, the decision maker observes a noisy
version of the data, yet judged with respect to the clean data. In particular,
we first consider the problem of sequentially scanning and filtering noisy
random fields. In this case, the sequential filter is given the freedom to
choose the path over which it traverses the random field (e.g., noisy image or
video sequence), thus it is natural to ask what is the best achievable
performance and how sensitive this performance is to the choice of the scan. We
formally define the problem of scanning and filtering, derive a bound on the
best achievable performance and quantify the excess loss occurring when
non-optimal scanners are used, compared to optimal scanning and filtering.
  We then discuss the problem of sequential scanning and prediction of noisy
random fields. This setting is a natural model for applications such as
restoration and coding of noisy images. We formally define the problem of
scanning and prediction of a noisy multidimensional array and relate the
optimal performance to the clean scandictability defined by Merhav and
Weissman. Moreover, bounds on the excess loss due to sub-optimal scans are
derived, and a universal prediction algorithm is suggested.
  This paper is the second part of a two-part paper. The first paper dealt with
sequential decision making on noiseless data arrays, namely, when the decision
maker is judged with respect to the same data array it observes.
  We demonstrate that the transfer matrix of the inhomogeneous $N$-state chiral
Potts model with two vertical superintegrable rapidities serves as the
$Q$-operator of XXZ chain model for a cyclic representation of $U_{\sf
q}(sl_2)$ with $N$th root-of-unity ${\sf q}$ and representation-parameter for
odd $N$. The symmetry problem of XXZ chain with a general cyclic $U_{\sf
q}(sl_2)$-representation is mapped onto the problem of studying $Q$-operator of
some special one-parameter family of generalized $\tau^{(2)}$-models. In
particular, the spin-$\frac{N-1}{2}$ XXZ chain model with ${\sf q}^N=1$ and the
homogeneous $N$-state chiral Potts model at a specific superintegrable point
are unified as one physical theory. By Baxter's method developed for producing
$Q_{72}$-operator of the root-of-unity eight-vertex model, we construct the
$Q_R, Q_L$- and $Q$-operators of a superintegrable $\tau^{(2)}$-model, then
identify them with transfer matrices of the $N$-state chiral Potts model for a
positive integer $N$. We thus obtain a new method of producing the
superintegrable $N$-state chiral Potts transfer matrix from the
$\tau^{(2)}$-model by constructing its $Q$-operator.
  We study complex-analytic properties of the augmented Teichmuller spaces ATS
introduced by Lipman Bers. These spaces are obtained by adding to the classical
Teichmuller space TS the points corresponding to nodal Riemann surfaces. Unlike
TS, the space ATS is not a complex manifold (it is not even locally compact).
We prove however that the quotient of ATS by any finite index subgroup of the
Teichmuller modular group has a canonical structure of a complex orbifold.
Using this structure we construct natural maps from ATS to stacks of admissible
coverings of stable Riemann surfaces. This result is important for
understanding the cup-product in stringy orbifold cohomology. We also establish
some new technical results from the general theory of orbifolds which may be of
independent interest.
  We present decompositions of various positive kernels as integrals or sums of
positive kernels. Within this framework we study the reproducing kernel Hilbert
spaces associated with the fractional and bi-fractional Brownian motions. As a
tool, we define a new function of two complex variables, which is a natural
generalization of the classical Gamma function for the setting we consider
  Assume that X is a metrizable separable space, and each clopen-valued lower
semicontinuous multivalued map Phi from X to Q has a continuous selection. Our
main result is that in this case, X is a sigma-space. We also derive a partial
converse implication, and present a reformulation of the Scheepers Conjecture
in the language of continuous selections.
  The family of metric operators, constructed by Musumbu {\sl et al} (2007 {\sl
J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.} {\bf 40} F75), for a harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian
augmented by a non-Hermitian $\cal PT$-symmetric part, is re-examined in the
light of an su(1,1) approach. An alternative derivation, only relying on
properties of su(1,1) generators, is proposed. Being independent of the
realization considered for the latter, it opens the way towards the
construction of generalized non-Hermitian (not necessarily $\cal PT$-symmetric)
oscillator Hamiltonians related by similarity to Hermitian ones. Some examples
of them are reviewed.
  We consider a class of translationally invariant magnetic fields such that
the corresponding potential has a constant direction.
  Our goal is to study basic spectral properties of the Schr\"odinger operator
${\bf H}$ with such a potential. In particular, we show that the spectrum of
${\bf H}$ is absolutely continuous and we find its location. Then we study the
long-time behaviour of solutions $\exp(-i {\bf H} t)f$ of the time dependent
Schr\"odinger equation. It turnes out that a quantum particle remains localized
in the plane orthogonal to the direction of the potential. Its propagation in
this direction is determined by group velocities. It is to a some extent
similar to a evolution of a one-dimensional free particle but "exits" to
$+\infty$ and $-\infty$ might be essentially different.
  We propose a fairly simple and natural extension of Stollmann's lemma to
correlated random variables. This extension allows (just as the original
Stollmann's lemma does) to obtain Wegner-type estimates even in some problems
of spectral analysis of random operators where the Wegner's lemma is
inapplicable (e.g. for multi-particle Hamiltonians).
  We find an explicit combinatorial gradient vector field on the well known
complex S (Salvetti complex) which models the complement to an arrangement of
complexified hyperplanes. The argument uses a total ordering on the facets of
the stratification of R^n associated to the arrangement, which is induced by a
generic system of polar coordinates. We give a combinatorial description of the
singular facets, finding also an algebraic complex which computes local
homology. We also give a precise construction in the case of the braid
arrangement.
  We provide a mathematical analysis of appearance of the concentrations (as
Dirac masses) of the solution to a Fokker-Planck system with asymmetric
potentials. This problem has been proposed as a model to describe motor
proteins moving along molecular filaments. The components of the system
describe the densities of the different conformations of the proteins. Our
results are based on the study of a Hamilton-Jacobi equation arising, at the
zero diffusion limit, after an exponential transformation change of the phase
function that rises a Hamilton-Jacobi equation. We consider different classes
of conformation transitions coefficients (bounded, unbounded and locally
vanishing).
  It does not seem to have been observed previously that the classical
Bernstein polynomials $B_N(f)(x)$ are closely related to the Bergman-Szego
kernels $\Pi_N$ for the Fubini-Study metric on $\CP^1$: $B_N(f)(x)$ is the
Berezin symbol of the Toeplitz operator $\Pi_N f(N^{-1} D_{\theta})$. The
relation suggests a generalization of Bernstein polynomials to any toric Kahler
variety and Delzant polytope $P$. When $f$ is smooth, $B_N(f)(x)$ admits a
complete asymptotic expansion. Integrating it over $P$ gives a complete
asymptotic expansion for Dedekind-Riemann sums of smooth functions over lattice
points in $N P$ related to Euler-MacLaurin sum formulae of Guillemin-Sternberg
and others.
  Let M be a compact symplectic manifold, and L be a closed Lagrangian
submanifold which can be lifted to a Legendrian submanifold in the
contactization of M. For any Legendrian deformation of L satisfying some given
conditions, we get a new Lagrangian submanifold L'. We prove that the number of
intersection of L and L' can be estimated from below by the sum of $Z_2$-Betti
numbers of L, provided they intersect transversally.
  We propose integral representations of the Whittaker functions for the
classical Lie algebras sp(2l), so(2l) and so(2l+1). These integral
representations generalize the integral representation of gl(l+1)-Whittaker
functions first introduced by Givental. One of the salient features of the
Givental representation is its recursive structure with respect to the rank of
the Lie algebra gl(l+1). The proposed generalization of the Givental
representation to the classical Lie algebras retains this property. It was
shown elsewhere that the integral recursion operator for gl(l+1)-Whittaker
function in the Givental representation coincides with a degeneration of the
Baxter Q-operator for $\hat{gl(l+1)}$-Toda chains. We construct Q-operator for
affine Lie algebras $\hat{so(2l)}$, $\hat{so(2l+1)}$ and a twisted form of
$\hat{gl(2l)}$. We demonstrate that the relation between recursion integral
operators of the generalized Givental representation and degenerate Q-operators
remains valid for all classical Lie algebras.
  There is a strikingly simple classical formula for the number of lattice
paths avoiding the line x = ky when k is a positive integer. We show that the
natural generalization of this simple formula continues to hold when the line x
= ky is replaced by certain periodic staircase boundaries--but only under
special conditions. The simple formula fails in general, and it remains an open
question to what extent our results can be further generalized.
  We study four distinct second-order nonlinear equations of Rabelo which
describe pseudospherical surfaces. By transforming these equations to the
constant-characteristic form we relate them to some well-studied integrable
equations. Two of the Rabelo equations are found to be related to the
sine-Gordon equation. The other two are transformed into a linear equation and
the Liouville equation, and in this way their general solutions are obtained.
  We introduce the notion of weak commensurabilty of arithmetic subgroups and
relate it to the length equivalence and isospectrality of locally symmetric
spaces. We prove many strong consequences of weak commensurabilty and derive
from these many interesting results about isolength and isospectral locally
symmetric spaces.
  We introduce a theory of jeu de taquin for increasing tableaux, extending
fundamental work of [Sch\"{u}tzenberger '77] for standard Young tableaux. We
apply this to give a new combinatorial rule for the K-theory Schubert calculus
of Grassmannians via K-theoretic jeu de taquin, providing an alternative to the
rules of [Buch '02] and others. This rule naturally generalizes to give a
conjectural root-system uniform rule for any minuscule flag variety G/P,
extending [Thomas-Yong '06]. We also present analogues of results of Fomin,
Haiman, Schensted and Sch\"{u}tzenberger.
  Motivated by the interesting and yet scattered developments in representation
theory of Banach-Lie groups, we discuss several functional analytic issues
which should underlie the notion of infinite-dimensional reductive Lie group:
norm ideals, triangular integrals, operator factorizations, and amenability.
  We study arithmetic progression in the $x$-coordinate of rational points on
genus two curves. As we know, there are two models for the curve $C$ of genus
two: $C: y^2=f_{5}(x)$ or $C: y^2=f_{6}(x)$, where $f_{5}, f_{6}\in\Q[x]$,
$\operatorname{deg}f_{5}=5, \operatorname{deg}f_{6}=6$ and the polynomials
$f_{5}, f_{6}$ do not have multiple roots. First we prove that there exists an
infinite family of curves of the form $y^2=f(x)$, where $f\in\Q[x]$ and
$\operatorname{deg}f=5$ each containing 11 points in arithmetic progression. We
also present an example of $F\in\Q[x]$ with $\operatorname{deg}F=5$ such that
on the curve $y^2=F(x)$ twelve points lie in arithmetic progression. Next, we
show that there exist infinitely many curves of the form $y^2=g(x)$ where
$g\in\Q[x]$ and $\operatorname{deg}g=6$, each containing 16 points in
arithmetic progression. Moreover, we present two examples of curves in this
form with 18 points in arithmetic progression.
  We prove that two unital dual operator algebras A, B are stably isomorphic if
and only if they are Delta-equivalent, if and only if they have completely
isometric normal representations a, b on Hilbert spaces H, K respectively and
there exists a ternary ring of operators M \subset B(H,K) such that a(A)=[M*
b(B) M]^{-w^*} and b(B)=[M a(A) M*]^{-w^*}.
  We give two characterizations of hyperquadrics: one as non-degenerate smooth
projective varieties swept out by large dimensional quadric subvarieties
passing through a point; the other as $LQEL$-manifolds with large secant
defects.
  The aim of this note is to introduce a compound basis for the space of
symmetric functions. Our basis consists of products of Schur functions and
$Q$-functions. The basis elements are indexed by the partitions. It is well
known that the Schur functions form an orthonormal basis for our space. A
natural question arises. How are these two bases connected? In this note we
present some numerical results of the transition matrix for these bases. In
particular we will see that the determinant of the transition matrix is a power
of 2. This is not a surprising fact. However the explicit formula involves an
interesting combinatorial feature.
  Our compound basis comes from the twisted homogeneous realization of the
basic representation of the affine Lie algebras.
  This note is not written in a standard style of mathematical articles. It is
more like a draft of a talk. In particular proofs are not given here. Details
and proofs will be published elsewhere.
  C*-endomorphisms arising from superselection structures with non-trivial
centre define a 'rank' and a 'first Chern class'. Crossed products by such
endomorphisms involve the Cuntz-Pimsner algebra of a vector bundle having the
above-mentioned rank and first Chern class, and can be used to construct a
duality for abstract (nonsymmetric) tensor categories vs. group bundles acting
on (nonsymmetric) Hilbert bimodules. Existence and unicity of the dual object
(i.e., the 'gauge' group bundle) are not ensured: we give a description of this
phenomenon in terms of a certain moduli space associated with the given
endomorphism. The above-mentioned Hilbert bimodules are noncommutative
analogues of gauge-equivariant vector bundles in the sense of Nistor-Troitsky.
  The mutual relation between quantum Micro and classical Macro is clarified by
a unified formulation of instruments describing measurement processes and the
associated amplification processes, from which some perspective towards a
description of emergence processes of spacetime structure is suggested.
  Expository paper on the relations between perturbation theory of
pseudo-differential operators, finiteness theorems and deformations of
Lagrangian varieties.
  Let $\mathcal{E}_{f}:y^2=x^3+f(t)x$, where $f\in\Q[t]\setminus\Q$, and let us
assume that $\op{deg}f\leq 4$. In this paper we prove that if $\op{deg}f\leq
3$, then there exists a rational base change $t\mapsto\phi(t)$ such that on the
surface $\cal{E}_{f\circ\phi}$ there is a non-torsion section. A similar
theorem is valid in case when $\op{deg}f=4$ and there exists $t_{0}\in\Q$ such
that infinitely many rational points lie on the curve
$E_{t_{0}}:y^2=x^3+f(t_{0})x$. In particular, we prove that if $\op{deg}f=4$
and $f$ is not an even polynomial, then there is a rational point on
$\cal{E}_{f}$. Next, we consider a surface $\cal{E}^{g}:y^2=x^3+g(t)$, where
$g\in\Q[t]$ is a monic polynomial of degree six. We prove that if the
polynomial $g$ is not even, there is a rational base change $t\mapsto\psi(t)$
such that on the surface $\cal{E}^{g\circ\psi}$ there is a non-torsion section.
Furthermore, if there exists $t_{0}\in\Q$ such that on the curve
$E^{t_{0}}:y^2=x^3+g(t_{0})$ there are infinitely many rational points, then
the set of these $t_{0}$ is infinite. We also present some results concerning
diophantine equation of the form $x^2-y^3-g(z)=t$, where $t$ is a variable.
  Using the analytic assembly map that appears in the Baum-Connes conjecture in
noncommutative geometry, we generalise the $\Spin^c$-version of the
Guillemin-Sternberg conjecture that `quantisation commutes with reduction' to
(discrete series representations of) semisimple groups $G$ with maximal compact
subgroups $K$ acting cocompactly on symplectic manifolds. We prove this
statement in cases where the image of the momentum map in question lies in the
set of strongly elliptic elements, the set of elements of $\g^*$ with compact
stabilisers. This assumption on the image of the momentum map is equivalent to
the assumption that $M = G \times_K N$, for a compact Hamiltonian $K$-manifold
$N$. The proof comes down to a reduction to the compact case. This reduction is
based on a `quantisation commutes with induction'-principle, and involves a
notion of induction of Hamiltonian group actions. This principle, in turn, is
based on a version of the naturality of the assembly map for the inclusion of
$K$ into $G$.
  Algebraic solutions of the sixth Painleve equation can be computed using
pullback transformations of hypergeometric equations with respect to specially
ramified rational coverings. In particular, as was noticed by the second author
and Doran, some algebraic solutions can be constructed from a rational covering
alone, without computation of the pullbacked Fuchsian equation. But the same
covering can be used to pullback different hypergeometric equations, resulting
in different algebraic Painleve VI solutions. This paper presents computations
of explicit RS-pullback transformations, and derivation of algebraic Painleve
VI solutions from them.
  We define and study entanglement of continuous positive definite functions on
products of compact groups. We formulate and prove an infinite-dimensional
analog of Horodecki Theorem, giving a necessary and sufficient criterion for
separability of such functions. The resulting characterisation is given in
terms of mappings of the space of continuous functions, preserving positive
definiteness. The relation between the developed group-theoretical formalism
and the conventional one, given in terms of density matrices, is established
through the non-commutative Fourier analysis.
  We compare several definitions of the Galois group of a linear difference
equation that have arisen in algebra, analysis and model theory and show, that
these groups are isomorphic over suitable fields. In addition, we study
properties of Picard-Vessiot extensions over fields with not necessarily
algebraically closed subfields of constants.
  For $\tau$ a stopping rule adapted to a sequence of $n$ iid observations, we
define the loss to be $\ex [ q(R_\tau)]$, where $R_j$ is the rank of the $j$th
observation, and $q$ is a nondecreasing function of the rank. This setting
covers both the best choice problem with $q(r)={\bf 1}(r>1)$, and Robbins'
problem with $q(r)=r$. As $n\to\infty$ the stopping problem acquires a limiting
form which is associated with the planar Poisson process. Inspecting the limit
we establish bounds on the stopping value and reveal qualitative features of
the optimal rule. In particular, we show that the complete history dependence
persists in the limit, thus answering a question asked by Bruss in the context
of Robbins' problem.
  We provide a systematic treatment of self-averaging identities for various
spin systems. The method is quite general, basically not relying on the nature
of the model, and as a special case recovers the Ghirlanda-Guerra and
Aizenman-Contucci identities, which are therefore proven, together with their
extension, to be valid in a vaste class of spin models. We use the dilute spin
glass as a guiding example.
  An odd meromorphic function f(s) is constructed from the Riemann
zeta-function evaluated at one-half plus s. The partial fraction expansion,
p(s), of f(s) is obtained using the conjunction of the Riemann hypothesis and
hypotheses advanced by the author. That compound hypothesis and the expansion
p(s) are employed in Part IV to derive the two-sided Laplace transform
representation of f(s) on the open vertical strip of all s with real part
between zero and four.
  We construct an action of the big cactus group (the fundamental group of the
Deligne-Mumford compactification of the moduli space of real curves of genus
zero with n undistinguished marked points) on Fock-Goncharov's SL_m analog of
the decorated Teichmuller space of ideal n-gons.
  We consider the Zassenhaus conjecture for the normalized unit group of the
integral group ring of the McLaughlin sporadic group McL. As a consequence, we
confirm for this group the Kimmerle's conjecture on prime graphs.
  The discrete tomography of B-type and F-type icosahedral model sets is
investigated, with an emphasis on reconstruction and uniqueness problems. These
are motivated by the request of materials science for the unique reconstruction
of quasicrystalline structures from a small number of images produced by
quantitative high resolution transmission electron microscopy.
  Using the Luthar-Passi method, we investigate the classical Zassenhaus
conjecture for the normalized unit group of the integral group ring of the
Rudvalis sporadic simple group Ru. As a consequence, for this group we confirm
Kimmerle's conjecture on prime graphs.
  We study "flat knot types" of geodesics on compact surfaces M^2. For every
flat knot type and any Riemannian metric g we introduce a Conley index
associated with the curve shortening flow on the space of immersed curves on
M^2. We conclude existence of closed geodesics with prescribed flat knot types,
provided the associated Conley index is nontrivial.
  In this paper the issue of energy efficiency in CDMA wireless data networks
is addressed through a game theoretic approach. Building on a recent paper by
the first two authors, wherein a non-cooperative game for spreading-code
optimization, power control, and receiver design has been proposed to maximize
the ratio of data throughput to transmit power for each active user, a
stochastic algorithm is here described to perform adaptive implementation of
the said non-cooperative game. The proposed solution is based on a combination
of RLS-type and LMS-type adaptations, and makes use of readily available
measurements. Simulation results show that its performance approaches with
satisfactory accuracy that of the non-adaptive game, which requires a much
larger amount of prior information.
  For homogeneous difference equation of the second order we study the analogy
of Hartman-Wintner problem on asymptotic integration of fundamental system of
solutions as argument tends to infinity.
  In this contribution, we investigate the idea of using cognitive radio to
reuse locally unused spectrum to increase the total system capacity. We
consider a multiband/wideband system in which the primary and cognitive users
wish to communicate to different receivers, subject to mutual interference and
assume that each user knows only his channel and the unused spectrum through
adequate sensing. The basic idea under the proposed scheme is based on the
notion of spectrum pooling. The idea is quite simple: a cognitive radio will
listen to the channel and, if sensed idle, will transmit during the voids. It
turns out that, although its simplicity, the proposed scheme showed very
interesting features with respect to the spectral efficiency and the maximum
number of possible pairwise cognitive communications. We impose the constraint
that users successively transmit over available bands through selfish water
filling. For the first time, our study has quantified the asymptotic (with
respect to the band) achievable gain of using spectrum pooling in terms of
spectral efficiency compared to classical radio systems. We then derive the
total spectral efficiency as well as the maximum number of possible pairwise
communications of such a spectrum pooling system.
  Let (\Omega,\mathcal{B},P) be a probability space, \mathcal{A} a
sub-sigma-field of \mathcal{B}, and \mu a regular conditional distribution for
P given \mathcal{A}. For various, classically interesting, choices of
\mathcal{A} (including tail and symmetric) the following 0-1 law is proved:
There is a set A_0 in \mathcal{A} such that P(A_0)=1 and \mu(\omega)(A) is 0 or
1 for all A in \mathcal{A} and \omega in A_0. Provided \mathcal{B} is countably
generated (and certain regular conditional distributions exist), the result
applies whatever P is.
  The Evans Lemma is basic for Myron W. Evans' GCUFT or ECE Theory. Evans has
given two proofs of his Lemma. Both proofs are shown here to be in error and
beyond repair.
  We extend to the first 300 Riemann zeros, the form of analysis reported by us
in arXiv:math-ph/0606005, in which the largest study had involved the first 75
zeros. Again, we model the nonsmooth fluctuating part of the Wu-Sprung
potential, which reproduces the Riemann zeros, by the alternating-sign sine
series fractal of Berry and Lewis A(x,g). Setting the fractal dimension equal
to 3/2. we estimate the frequency parameter (g), plus an overall scaling
parameter (s) introduced. We search for that pair of parameters (g,s) which
minimizes the least-squares fit of the lowest 300 eigenvalues -- obtained by
solving the one-dimensional stationary (non-fractal) Schrodinger equation with
the trial potential (smooth plus nonsmooth parts) -- to the first 300 Riemann
zeros. We randomly sample values within the rectangle 0 < s < 3, 0 < g < 25.
The fits obtained are compared to those gotten by using simply the smooth part
of the Wu-Sprung potential without any fractal supplementation. Some limited
improvement is again found. There are two (primary and secondary) quite
distinct subdomains, in which the values giving improvements in fit are
concentrated.
  Qualitative and spectral properties of the form-sums
  S_{\pm}(V):=D_{\pm}^{2m}\dotplus V(x),\quad m\in \mathbb{N}, in the Hilbert
space $L_{2}(0,1)$ are studied. Here the periodic $(D_{+})$ and the
semiperiodic $(D_{-})$ differential operators are $D_{\pm}: u\mapsto -i u'$,
and $V(x)$ is a 1-periodic complex-valued distribution in the Sobolev spaces
$H_{per}^{-m\alpha}$, $\alpha\in [0,1]$.
  The main result is that, for any projective compact analytic subset A of
dimension q>0 in a reduced complex space X, there is a neighborhood U of A such
that, for any covering space Z of X in which the lifting B of A has no
noncompact connected analytic subsets of pure dimension q with only compact
irreducible components, there exists a smooth exhaustion function on Z which is
strongly q-convex on the lifting of U outside a uniform neighborhood of the
q-dimensional compact irreducible components B.
  We study and compare the Shannon capacity region and the stable throughput
region for a random access system in which source nodes multicast their
messages to multiple destination nodes. Under an erasure channel model which
accounts for interference and allows for multipacket reception, we first
characterize the Shannon capacity region. We then consider a queueing-theoretic
formulation and characterize the stable throughput region for two different
transmission policies: a retransmission policy and random linear coding. Our
results indicate that for large blocklengths, the random linear coding policy
provides a higher stable throughput than the retransmission policy.
Furthermore, our results provide an example of a transmission policy for which
the Shannon capacity region strictly outer bounds the stable throughput region,
which contradicts an unproven conjecture that the Shannon capacity and stable
throughput coincide for random access systems.
  We develop a method for measuring and localizing homology classes. This
involves two problems. First, we define relevant notions of size for both a
homology class and a homology group basis, using ideas from relative homology.
Second, we propose an algorithm to compute the optimal homology basis, using
techniques from persistent homology and finite field algebra. Classes of the
computed optimal basis are localized with cycles conveying their sizes. The
algorithm runs in $O(\beta^4 n^3 \log^2 n)$ time, where $n$ is the size of the
simplicial complex and $\beta$ is the Betti number of the homology group.
  The nonlinear steepest descent method for rank-two systems relies on the
notion of g-function. The applicability of the method ranges from orthogonal
polynomials (and generalizations) to Painleve transcendents, and integrable
wave equations (KdV, NonLinear Schroedinger, etc.).
  For the case of asymptotics of generalized orthogonal polynomials with
respect to varying complex weights we can recast the requirements for the
Cauchy-transform of the equilibrium measure into a problem of algebraic
geometry and harmonic analysis and completely solve the existence and
uniqueness issue without relying on the minimization of a functional. This
addresses and solves also the issue of the ``free boundary problem'',
determining implicitly the curves where the zeroes of the orthogonal
polynomials accumulate in the limit of large degrees and the support of the
measure. The relevance to the quasi--linear Stokes phenomenon for Painleve
equations is indicated. A numerical algorithm to find these curves in some
cases is also explained.
  Technical note: the animations included in the file can be viewed using
Acrobat Reader 7 or higher. Mac users should also install a QuickTime plugin
called Flip4Mac. Linux users can extract the embedded animations and play them
with an external program like VLC or MPlayer. All trademarks are owned by the
respective companies.
  We consider the problem of enumerating Dyck paths staying weakly above the
x-axis with a limit to the number of consecutive up steps, or a limit to the
number of consecutive down steps. We use Finite Operator Calculus to obtain
formulas for the number of all such paths reaching a given point in the first
quadrant. All our results are based on the Eulerian coefficients.
  We give an extensive treatment of the Constant Mean Curvature (CMC) Einstein
flow from the point of view of the Bel-Robinson energies. The article, in
particular, stresses on estimates showing how the Bel-Robinson energies and the
volume of the evolving states control intrinsically the flow along evolution.
The treatment is for flows over compact three-manifolds of arbitrary
topological type, although the form of the estimates may vary depending on the
Yamabe invariant of the manifold. We end up showing well posedness of the CMC
Einstein flow with H^{3} x H^{2} regularity, and proving a criteria for a flow
to be a long-time flow on manifolds with non-positive Yamabe invariant in terms
only of the first order Bel-Robinson energy.
  We study the set $\sncb (p,q)$ of annular non-crossing permutations of type
B, and we introduce a corresponding set $\ncb (p,q)$ of annular non-crossing
partitions of type B, where $p$ and $q$ are two positive integers. We prove
that the natural bijection between $\sncb (p,q)$ and $\ncb (p,q)$ is a poset
isomorphism, where the partial order on $\sncb (p,q)$ is induced from the
hyperoctahedral group $B_{p+q}$, while $\ncb (p,q)$ is partially ordered by
reverse refinement. In the case when $q=1$, we prove that $\ncb (p,1)$ is a
lattice with respect to reverse refinement order.
  We point out that an analogous development can be pursued in type D, where
one gets a canonical isomorphism between $\sncd (p,q)$ and $\ncd (p,q)$. For
$q=1$, the poset $\ncd (p,1)$ coincides with a poset ``$NC^{(D)} (p+1)$''
constructed in a paper by Athanasiadis and Reiner in 2004, and is a lattice by
the results of that paper.
  Both a general and a diagonal u-invariant for forms of higher degree are
defined, generalizing the u-invariant of quadratic forms. Both old and new
results on these invariants are collected.
  We prove that it is relatively consistent with the usual axioms of
mathematics that all automorphisms of the Calkin algebra are inner. Together
with a 2006 Phillips--Weaver construction of an outer automorphism using the
Continuum Hypothesis, this gives a complete solution to a 1977 problem of
Brown-Douglas-Fillmore. We also give a simpler and self-contained proof of the
Phillips--Weaver result.
  Several notions of multiplicativity are introduced for forms of degree $d\geq
3$ over a field of characteristic 0 or greater than d. Examples of
multiplicative and strongly multiplicative forms of higher degree are given.
Conditions restricting the structure of a strongly multiplicative form are
found.
  We provide a characterization of the Clifford Torus in S3 via moving frames
and contact structure equations. More precisely, we prove that minimal surfaces
in S3 with constant contact angle must be the Clifford Torus. Some applications
of this result are then given, and some examples are discussed.
  A transmitter without channel state information (CSI) wishes to send a
delay-limited Gaussian source over a slowly fading channel. The source is coded
in superimposed layers, with each layer successively refining the description
in the previous one. The receiver decodes the layers that are supported by the
channel realization and reconstructs the source up to a distortion. The
expected distortion is minimized by optimally allocating the transmit power
among the source layers. For two source layers, the allocation is optimal when
power is first assigned to the higher layer up to a power ceiling that depends
only on the channel fading distribution; all remaining power, if any, is
allocated to the lower layer. For convex distortion cost functions with convex
constraints, the minimization is formulated as a convex optimization problem.
In the limit of a continuum of infinite layers, the minimum expected distortion
is given by the solution to a set of linear differential equations in terms of
the density of the fading distribution. As the bandwidth ratio b (channel uses
per source symbol) tends to zero, the power distribution that minimizes
expected distortion converges to the one that maximizes expected capacity.
While expected distortion can be improved by acquiring CSI at the transmitter
(CSIT) or by increasing diversity from the realization of independent fading
paths, at high SNR the performance benefit from diversity exceeds that from
CSIT, especially when b is large.
  Let $R$ be a commutative ring, $G$ a group and $RG$ its group ring. Let
$\phi_{\sigma} : RG\to RG$ denote the involution defined by $\phi_{\sigma}
(\sum r_{g}g) = \sum r_{g} \sigma (g) g^{-1}$, where $\sigma:G\to \{\pm 1\}$ is
a group homomorphism (called an orientation morphism). An element $x$ in $RG$
is said to be antisymmetric if $\phi_{\sigma} (x) =-x$. We give a full
characterization of the groups $G$ and its orientations for which the
antisymmetric elements of $RG$ commute.
  Motivated by the work of Salvetti and Settepanella we introduce certain total
orderings of the faces of any shellable regular CW-complex (called
`shelling-type orderings') that can be used to explicitly construct maximum
acyclic matchings of the poset of cells of the given complex. Building on an
application of this method to the classical zonotope shellings we describe a
class of maximum acyclic matchings for the Salvetti complex of a linear
complexified arrangement. To do this, we introduce and study a new
combinatorial stratification of the Salvetti complex. For the obtained acyclic
matchings we give an explicit description of the critical cells that depends
only on the chosen linear extension of the poset of regions. It is always
possible to choose the linear extension so that the critical cells can be
explicitly constructed from the chambers of the arrangement via the bijection
to no-broken-circuit sets defined by Jewell and Orlik. Our method can be
generalized to arbitraty oriented matroids.
  We present algebraic derivation of the result of Schr\"{o}dinger [1] for the
spectrum of hydrogen atom in the space with constant curvature.
  For symplectic group actions which are not Hamiltonian there are two ways to
define reduction. Firstly using the cylinder-valued momentum map and secondly
lifting the action to any Hamiltonian cover (such as the universal cover), and
then performing symplectic reduction in the usual way. We show that provided
the action is free and proper, and the Hamiltonian holonomy associated to the
action is closed, the natural projection from the latter to the former is a
symplectic cover. At the same time we give a classification of all Hamiltonian
covers of a given symplectic group action. The main properties of the lifting
of a group action to a cover are studied.
  We prove an extension theorem for a small perturbation of the
Ornstein-Uhlenbeck operator $(L,D(L))$ in the space of all uniformly continuous
and bounded functions $f:H\to \Rset$, where $H$ is a separable Hilbert space.
We consider a perturbation of the form $N_0\phi=L\phi+< D\phi,F>$ where $F:H\to
H$ is bounded and Fr\'echet differentiable with uniformly continuous and
bounded differential. Hence, we prove that $N_0$ is $m$-dissipative and its
closure in $C_b(H)$ coincides with the infinitesimal generator of a diffusion
semigroup associated to a stochastic differential equation in $H$.
  An almost Belyi covering is an algebraic covering of the projective line,
such that all ramified points except one simple ramified point lie above a set
of 3 points of the projective line. In general, there are 1-dimensional
families of these coverings with a fixed ramification pattern. (That is,
Hurwitz spaces for these coverings are curves.) In this paper, three almost
Belyi coverings of degrees 11, 12, and 20 are explicitly constructed. We
demonstrate how these coverings can be used for computation of several
algebraic solutions of the sixth Painleve equation.
  We find and study a six (resp. seven, eight)-parameter family of polynomial
Hamiltonian systems of second order, respectively. This system admits the
affine Weyl group symmetry of type $E_6^{(1)}$ (resp. $E_7^{(1)}, E_8^{(1)}$)
as the group of its B{\"a}cklund transformations. Each system is the first
example which gave second-order polynomial Hamiltonian system with ${\tilde
W}(E_6^{(1)})$ (resp. ${\tilde W}(E_7^{(1)}), W(E_8^{(1)})$)-symmetry.
  We also show that its space of initial conditions $S$ is obtained by gluing
eight (resp. nine, ten) copies of ${\Bbb C}^2$ via the birational and
symplectic transformations.
  We consider triangular arrays of Markov chains that converge weakly to a
diffusion process. Second order Edgeworth type expansions for transition
densities are proved. The paper differs from recent results in two respects. We
allow nonhomogeneous diffusion limits and we treat transition densities with
time lag converging to zero. Small time asymptotics are motivated by
statistical applications and by resulting approximations for the joint density
of diffusion values at an increasing grid of points.
  Configurations of rigid collections of saddle connections are connected
component invariants for strata of the moduli space of quadratic differentials.
They have been classified for strata of Abelian differentials by Eskin, Masur
and Zorich. Similar work for strata of quadratic differentials has been done in
Masur and Zorich, although in that case the connected components were not
distinguished. We classify the configurations for quadratic differentials on
the Riemann sphere and on hyperelliptic connected components of the moduli
space of quadratic differentials. We show that, in genera greater than five,
any configuration that appears in the hyperelliptic connected component of a
stratum also appears in the non-hyperelliptic one.
  We provide an elementary proof for a theorem due to Petz and R\'effy which
states that for a random $n\times n$ unitary matrix with distribution given by
the Haar measure on the unitary group U(n), the upper left (or any other)
$k\times k$ submatrix converges in distribution, after multiplying by a
normalization factor $\sqrt{n}$ and as $n\to\infty$, to a matrix of independent
complex Gaussian random variables with mean 0 and variance 1.
  In this paper the classical theory of spherical harmonics in R^m is extended
to superspace using techniques from Clifford analysis. After defining a
super-Laplace operator and studying some basic properties of polynomial
null-solutions of this operator, a new type of integration over the supersphere
is introduced by exploiting the formal equivalence with an old result of
Pizzetti. This integral is then used to prove orthogonality of spherical
harmonics of different degree, Green-like theorems and also an extension of the
important Funk-Hecke theorem to superspace. Finally, this integration over the
supersphere is used to define an integral over the whole superspace and it is
proven that this is equivalent with the Berezin integral, thus providing a more
sound definition of the Berezin integral.
  The complex form of Maxwell equations has been constructed as one equation
for 3-dimensional complex A-vector. The real and imaginary parts of this vector
are described with use of electric and magnetic tensions accordingly. With
using a theory of generalized functions for new equations, the strong shock
electro-magnetic waves with the gap of tensions on fronts are considered. The
conditions on wave fronts have been received. It's shown that gap of the
tensions is tangent to the front of a wave, i.e. shock electromagnetic waves
are transverse and charges on the front of wave are absent. Generalized laws of
conservation of energy and charges have been received including ones on the
fronts of shock waves. The generalized solutions of this equations and solution
of Caushy problem have been constructed and the theorems of their uniqueness
have been proved including the shock waves.
  We present reduction and reconstruction procedures for the solutions of
symmetric stochastic differential equations, similar to those available for
ordinary differential equations. Additionally, we use the local tangent-normal
decomposition, available when the symmetry group is proper, to construct local
skew-product splittings in a neighborhood of any point in the open and dense
principal orbit type. The general methods introduced in the first part of the
paper are then adapted to the Hamiltonian case, which is studied with special
care and illustrated with several examples. The Hamiltonian category deserves a
separate study since in that situation the presence of symmetries implies in
most cases the existence of conservation laws, mathematically described via
momentum maps, that should be taken into account in the analysis.
  The Atiyah-Singer index theorem is generalized to a two-dimensional SO(3)
Yang-Mills-Higgs (YMH) system. The generalized theorem is proven by using the
heat kernel method and a nonlinear realization of SU(2) gauge symmetry. This
theorem is applied to the problem of deriving a charge quantization condition
in the four-dimensional SO(3) YMH system with non-Abelian monopoles. The
resulting quantization condition, eg=n (n: integer), for an electric charge e
and a magnetic charge g is consistent with that found by Arafune, Freund and
Goebel. It is shown that the integer n is half of the index of a Dirac
operator.
  In this paper I present an (\in, =)-sentence, AC**, with only 5 quantifiers,
that logically implies the axiom of choice, AC. Furthermore, using a weak
fragment of ZF set theory, I prove that AC implies AC**.
  Up to now 6 quantifiers were the minimum and 3 quantifiers don't suffice
since all 3-quantifier (\in, =)-sentences are decided in a weak fragment of ZF
set theory. Thus the gap is reduced to the undecided case of a 4 quantifier
sentence ZF-equivalent to AC.
  For a Kahler manifold X, we study a space of test functions W* which is a
complex version of H1. We prove for W* the classical results of the theory of
Dirichlet spaces: the functions in W* are defined up to a pluripolar set and
the functional capacity associated to W* tests the pluripolar sets. This
functional capacity is a Choquet capacity.
  The space W* is not reflexive and the smooth functions are not dense in it
for the strong topology. So the classical tools of potential theory do not
apply here. We use instead pluripotential theory and Dirichlet spaces
associated to a current.
  The results in the recently posted manuscript arXiv:math/0405153v3 are
incorrect. The correct version of the aimed results is not original. The
preprint contains material from references that are not properly quoted.
  We produce examples of complex algebraic surfaces with isolated singularities
such that these singularities are not metrically conic, i.e. the germs of the
surfaces near singular points are not bi-Lipschitz equivalent, with respect to
the inner metric, to cones. The technique used to prove the nonexistence of the
metric conic structure is related to a development of Metric Homology. The
class of the examples is rather large and it includes some surfaces of
Brieskorn.
  For a (co)monad T_l on a category M, an object X in M, and a functor \Pi: M
\to C, there is a (co)simplex Z^*:=\Pi T_l^{* +1} X in C. Our aim is to find
criteria for para-(co)cyclicity of Z^*. Construction is built on a distributive
law of T_l with a second (co)monad T_r on M, a natural transformation i:\Pi T_l
\to \Pi T_r, and a morphism w: T_r X \to T_l X in M. The relations i and w need
to satisfy are categorical versions of Kaygun's axioms of a transposition map.
Motivation comes from the observation that a (co)ring T over an algebra R
determines a distributive law of two (co)monads T_l=T \otimes_R (-) and T_r =
(-)\otimes_R T on the category of R-bimodules. The functor \Pi can be chosen
such that Z^n= T\hat{\otimes}_R... \hat{\otimes}_R T \hat{\otimes}_R X is the
cyclic R-module tensor product. A natural transformation i:T \hat{\otimes}_R
(-) \to (-) \hat{\otimes}_R T is given by the flip map and a morphism w: X
\otimes_R T \to T\otimes_R X is constructed whenever T is a (co)module algebra
or coring of an R-bialgebroid. Stable anti Yetter-Drinfel'd modules over
certain bialgebroids, so called x_R-Hopf algebras, are introduced. In the
particular example when T is a module coring of a x_R-Hopf algebra B and X is a
stable anti Yetter-Drinfel'd B-module, the para-cyclic object Z_* is shown to
project to a cyclic structure on T^{\otimes_R *+1} \otimes_B X. For a B-Galois
extension S \to T, a stable anti Yetter-Drinfel'd B-module T_S is constructed,
such that the cyclic objects B^{\otimes_R *+1} \otimes_B T_S and T^
{\hat{\otimes}_S *+1} are isomorphic. As an application, we compute Hochschild
and cyclic homology of a groupoid with coefficients, by tracing it back to the
group case. In particular, we obtain explicit expressions for ordinary
Hochschild and cyclic homology of a groupoid.
  We use representation theory to construct integral formulas for solutions to
the quantum Toda lattice in general type. This result generalizes work of
Givental for SL(n)/B in a uniform way to arbitrary type and can be interpreted
as a kind of mirror theorem for the full flag variety G/B. We also prove the
existence of a totally positive critical point of the 'superpotential' in every
mirror fiber.
  We consider the size and structure of the automorphism groups of a variety of
empirical `real-world' networks and find that, in contrast to classical random
graph models, many real-world networks are richly symmetric. We relate
automorphism group structure to network topology and discuss generic forms of
symmetry and their origin in real-world networks.
  The class of algorithmically computable simple games (i) includes the class
of games that have finite carriers and (ii) is included in the class of games
that have finite winning coalitions. This paper characterizes computable games,
strengthens the earlier result that computable games violate anonymity, and
gives examples showing that the above inclusions are strict. It also extends
Nakamura's theorem about the nonemptyness of the core and shows that computable
games have a finite Nakamura number, implying that the number of alternatives
that the players can deal with rationally is restricted.
  A cohomology theory of the adjoint of Hopf algebras, via deformations, is
presented by means of diagrammatic techniques. Explicit calculations are
provided in the cases of group algebras, function algebras on groups, and the
bosonization of the super line. As applications, solutions to the YBE are given
and quandle cocycles are constructed from groupoid cocycles.
  Given integers s and t, define a function phi_{s,t} on the space of all
formal complex series expansions by phi_{s,t} (sum a_n x^n) = sum a_{sn+t} x^n.
We define an integer r to be distinguished with respect to (s,t) if r and s are
relatively prime and and r divides t (1 + s + ... s^{ord_r(s)-1}). The vector
space consisting of all rational functions whose Taylor expansions at zero are
fixed by phi_{s,t} was previously classified by constructing a basis that is
partially indexed by integers that are distinguished with respect to the pair
(s,t). In this paper, we study the properties of the set of distinguished
integers with respect to (s,t). In particular, we demonstrate that the set of
distinguished integers with respect to (s,t) can be written as a union of
infinitely many arithmetic progressions. In addition, we construct another
generating set for the collection of rational functions that are fixed by
phi_{s,t} and discuss the relationship between this generating set and the
basis that was generated previously.
  The aim of this contribution is to give the explicit formulas for the
eigenvectors of the transfer-matrix of Baxter-Bazhanov-Stroganov (BBS) model
(N-state spin model) with fixed-spin boundary conditions. These formulas are
obtained by a limiting procedure from the formulas for the eigenvectors of
periodic BBS model. The latter formulas were derived in the framework of the
Sklyanin's method of separation of variables. In the case of fixed-spin
boundaries the corresponding T-Q Baxter equations for the functions of
separated variables are solved explicitly. As a particular case we obtain the
eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian of Ising-like Z_N quantum chain model.
  In his famous book, Felix Klein describes a complex variable for the
quotients of the ordinary sphere by the finite groups of rotations and in
particular for the most complex situation of the quotient by the symmetry group
of the icosahedron. The purpose of this work and its sequels is to obtain
similar results for the quotients of the three--dimensional sphere. Various
properties of the group $SU(2)$ and of its representations are used to obtain
explicit expressions for coordinates and the relations they satisfy.
  We show that the bicategory of (representable) orbifolds and good maps is
equivalent to the bicategory of orbifold translation groupoids and generalized
equivariant maps. We use this result to define an orbifold version of Bredon
cohomology.
  The Yangian of the strange Lie superalgebras in Drinfel'd realization is
defined. The current system generators and defining relations are described.
  We gave a new very simple proof that the completion of the space of the
diffeomorphism of the circle modulo conformal maps with respect to the
Weil-Petersson Metric is a complex analytic manifold modeled on the Hilbert
space with 3/2 Sobolev norm. Our proof is based on the analogue of the Hadamard
Theorem that the exponentila map is a complex analytic map from the tanegnt
space of a point of a simply connected manifold to the manifold.
  In this paper, a transmission protocol is studied for a two relay wireless
network in which simple repetition coding is applied at the relays.
Information-theoretic achievable rates for this transmission scheme are given,
and a space-time V-BLAST signalling and detection method that can approach them
is developed. It is shown through the diversity multiplexing tradeoff analysis
that this transmission scheme can recover the multiplexing loss of the
half-duplex relay network, while retaining some diversity gain. This scheme is
also compared with conventional transmission protocols that exploit only the
diversity of the network at the cost of a multiplexing loss. It is shown that
the new transmission protocol offers significant performance advantages over
conventional protocols, especially when the interference between the two relays
is sufficiently strong.
  We prove a result about extension of a minimal AF-equivalence relation R on
the Cantor set X, the extension being `small' in the sense that we modify R on
a thin closed subset Y of X. We show that the resulting extended equivalence
relation S is orbit equivalent to the original R, and so, in particular, S is
affable. Even in the simplest case--when Y is a finite set--this result is
highly non-trivial. The result itself--called the absorption theorem--is a
powerful and crucial tool for the study of the orbit structure of minimal
Z^n-actions on the Cantor set [GMPS]. The absorption theorem is a significant
generalization of the main theorem proved in [GPS2]. However, we shall need a
few key results from [GPS2] in order to prove the absorption theorem.
  We compute the volumes of the eigenform loci in the moduli space of genus two
Abelian differentials. From this, we obtain asymptotic formulas for counting
closed billiards paths in certain L-shaped polygons with barriers.
  We prove that every compact plane billiard, bounded by a smooth curve, is
insecure: there exist pairs of points $A,B$ such that no finite set of points
can block all billiard trajectories from $A$ to $B$.
  A certain class of rank two pointed Hopf algebras is considered. The simple
modules of their Drinfel'd double is described using Radford's method
\cite{rad}. The socle of the tensor product of two such modules is computed and
a formula similar to the one in \cite{one} is obtained in some conditions.
Cases when such a tensor product is completely irreducible are also given in
the last section.
  The quantum Markovian master equation of the reduced dynamics of a harmonic
oscillator coupled to a thermal reservoir is shown to possess thermal symmetry.
This symmetry is revealed by a Bogoliubov transformation that can be
represented by a hyperbolic rotation acting on the Liouville space of the
reduced dynamics. The Liouville space is obtained as an extension of the
Hilbert space through the introduction of tilde variables used in the
thermofield dynamics formalism. The angle of rotation depends on the
temperature of the reservoir, as well as the value of Planck's constant. This
symmetry relates the thermal states of the system at any two temperatures. This
includes absolute zero, at which purely quantum effects are revealed. The
Caldeira-Leggett equation and the classical Fokker-Planck equation also possess
thermal symmetry. We compare the thermal symmetry obtained from the Bogoliubov
transformation in related fields and discuss the effects of the symmetry on the
shape of a Gaussian wave packet.
  We introduce a new construction of $E_0$-semigroups, called generalized CCR
flows, with two kinds of descriptions: those arising from sum systems and those
arising from pairs of $C_0$-semigroups. We get a new necessary and sufficient
condition for them to be of type III, when the associated sum system is of
finite index. Using this criterion, we construct examples of type III
$E_0$-semigroups, which can not be distinguished from $E_0$-semigroups of type
I by the invariants introduced by Boris Tsirelson. Finally, by considering the
local von Neumann algebras, and by associating a type III factor to a given
type III $E_0$-semigroup, we show that there exist uncountably many type III
$E_0$-semigroups in this family, which are mutually non-cocycle conjugate.
  In this note the notion of infinitesimal scattering matrix is introduced. It
is shown that under certain assumption, the scattering operator of a pair of
trace compatible operators is equal to the chronological exponential of the
infinitesimal scattering matrix and that the trace of the infinitesimal
scattering matrix is equal to the absolutely continuous part of the
infinitesimal spectral flow. As a corollary, a variant of the Birman-Krein
formula is derived. An interpretation of Pushnitski's $\mu$-invariant is given.
  We have introduced a notion of $C^*$-symbolic dynamical system in [K.
Matsumoto: Actions of symbolic dynamical systems on $C^*$-algebras, to appear
in J. Reine Angew. Math.], that is a finite family of endomorphisms of a
$C^*$-algebra with some conditions. The endomorphisms are indexed by symbols
and yield both a subshift and a $C^*$-algebra of a Hilbert $C^*$-bimodule. The
associated $C^*$-algebra with the $C^*$-symbolic dynamical system is regarded
as a crossed product by the subshift. We will study a simplicity condition of
the $C^*$-algebras of the $C^*$-symbolic dynamical systems. Some examples such
as irrational rotation Cuntz-Krieger algebras will be studied.
  Guided by a geometric understanding developed in earlier works of Wang and
Young, we carry out some numerical studies of shear-induced chaos. The settings
considered include periodic kicking of limit cycles, random kicks at Poisson
times, and continuous-time driving by white noise. The forcing of a
quasi-periodic model describing two coupled oscillators is also investigated.
In all cases, positive Lyapunov exponents are found in suitable parameter
ranges when the forcing is suitably directed.
  In general, for higher order elliptic equations and boundary value problems
like the biharmonic equation and the linear clamped plate boundary value
problem neither a maximum principle nor a comparison principle or --
equivalently -- a positivity preserving property is available. The problem is
rather involved since the clamped boundary conditions prevent the boundary
value problem {from} being reasonably written as a system of second order
boundary value problems.
  It is shown that, on the other hand, for bounded smooth domains $\Omega
\subset\mathbb{R}^n$, the negative part of the corresponding Green's function
is "small" when compared with its singular positive part, provided $n\ge 3$.
  Moreover, the biharmonic Green's function in balls $B\subset\mathbb{R}^n$
under Dirichlet (i.e. clamped) boundary conditions is known explicitly and is
positive. It has been known for some time that positivity is preserved under
small regular perturbations of the domain, if $n=2$. In the present paper, such
a stability result is proved for $n\ge 3$. Keywords: Biharmonic Green's
functions, positivity, almost positivity, blow-up procedure.
  We derive diffusion constants and martingales for senile random walks with
the help of a time-change. We provide direct computations of the diffusion
constants for the time-changed walks. Alternatively, the values of these
constants can be derived from martingales associated with the time-changed
walks. Using an inverse time-change, the diffusion constants for senile random
walks are then obtained via these martingales. When the walks are diffusive,
weak convergence to Brownian motion can be shown using a martingale functional
limit theorem.
  This paper studies oracle properties of $\ell_1$-penalized least squares in
nonparametric regression setting with random design. We show that the penalized
least squares estimator satisfies sparsity oracle inequalities, i.e., bounds in
terms of the number of non-zero components of the oracle vector. The results
are valid even when the dimension of the model is (much) larger than the sample
size and the regression matrix is not positive definite. They can be applied to
high-dimensional linear regression, to nonparametric adaptive regression
estimation and to the problem of aggregation of arbitrary estimators.
  In this paper we present three simple applications of probability and
highlight and discuss their paradoxical flavour.
  For the 1-dimensional Kuramoto-Sivashinsky equation with random forcing term,
existence and uniqueness of solutions is proved. Then, the Markovian semigroup
is well defined; its properties are analyzed, in order to provide sufficient
conditions for existence and uniqueness of invariant measures for this
stochastic equation. Finally, regularity results are presented.
  It is argued that demanding for similar characters between the coordinates of
space-time and the fields would sound that non-Abelian gauge theories might be
formulated most naturally based on fields depending on matrix coordinates.
  We introduce a new numerical invariant of knots and links from the descending
diagrams. It is considered to live between the unknotting number and the bridge
number.
  We present a proof that quantum Yang-Mills theory can be consistently defined
as a renormalized, perturbative quantum field theory on an arbitrary globally
hyperbolic curved, Lorentzian spacetime. To this end, we construct the
non-commutative algebra of observables, in the sense of formal power series, as
well as a space of corresponding quantum states. The algebra contains all gauge
invariant, renormalized, interacting quantum field operators (polynomials in
the field strength and its derivatives), and all their relations such as
commutation relations or operator product expansion. It can be viewed as a
deformation quantization of the Poisson algebra of classical Yang-Mills theory
equipped with the Peierls bracket. The algebra is constructed as the cohomology
of an auxiliary algebra describing a gauge fixed theory with ghosts and
anti-fields. A key technical difficulty is to establish a suitable hierarchy of
Ward identities at the renormalized level that ensure conservation of the
interacting BRST-current, and that the interacting BRST-charge is nilpotent.
The algebra of physical interacting field observables is obtained as the
cohomology of this charge. As a consequence of our constructions, we can prove
that the operator product expansion closes on the space of gauge invariant
operators. Similarly, the renormalization group flow is proved not to leave the
space of gauge invariant operators.
  We prove a non-standard functional limit theorem for a two dimensional simple
random walk on some randomly oriented lattices. This random walk, already known
to be transient, has different horizontal and vertical fluctuations leading to
different normalizations in the functional limit theorem, with a non-Gaussian
horizontal behavior. We also prove that the horizontal and vertical components
are not asymptotically independent.
  In random-access communication systems, the number of active users varies
with time, and has considerable bearing on receiver's performance. Thus,
techniques aimed at identifying not only the information transmitted, but also
that number, play a central role in those systems. An example of application of
these techniques can be found in multiuser detection (MUD). In typical MUD
analyses, receivers are based on the assumption that the number of active users
is constant and known at the receiver, and coincides with the maximum number of
users entitled to access the system. This assumption is often overly
pessimistic, since many users might be inactive at any given time, and
detection under the assumption of a number of users larger than the real one
may impair performance.
  The main goal of this paper is to introduce a general approach to the problem
of identifying active users and estimating their parameters and data in a
random-access system where users are continuously entering and leaving the
system. The tool whose use we advocate is Random-Set Theory: applying this, we
derive optimum receivers in an environment where the set of transmitters
comprises an unknown number of elements. In addition, we can derive
Bayesian-filter equations which describe the evolution with time of the a
posteriori probability density of the unknown user parameters, and use this
density to derive optimum detectors. In this paper we restrict ourselves to
interferer identification and data detection, while in a companion paper we
shall examine the more complex problem of estimating users' parameters.
  For orthonormal normal sections of two-dimensional immersions in R^4 we
define torsion coefficients and a functional for the total torsion. We discuss
normal sections which are critical for this functional. In particular, a global
estimate for the torsion coefficients of a critical normal section in terms of
the curvature of the normal bundle is provided.
  We describe explicitly the moduli spaces $M^{pst}_g(S,E)$ of polystable
holomorphic structures $E$ with $\det E\cong K$ on a rank 2 vector bundle $E$
with $c_1(E)=c_1(K)$ and $c_2(E)=0$ for all minimal class VII surfaces $S$ with
$b_2(S)=1$ and with respect to all possible Gauduchon metrics $g$. These
surfaces $S$ are non-elliptic and non-Kaehler complex surfaces and have
recently been completely classified. When $S$ is a half or parabolic Inoue
surface, $M^{pst}_g(S,E)$ is always a compact one-dimensional complex disc.
When $S$ is an Enoki surface, one obtains a complex disc with finitely many
transverse self-intersections whose number becomes arbitrarily large when $g$
varies in the space of Gauduchon metrics. $M^{pst}_g(S,E)$ can be identified
with a moduli space of PU(2)-instantons. The moduli spaces of simple bundles of
the above type leads to interesting examples of non-Hausdorff singular
one-dimensional complex spaces.
  This paper is concerned with the extent to which the Skolem-Bang theorems in
Diophantine approximations generalise from the standard setting of $<R,Z>$ to
structures of the form $<F,I>$, where $F$ is an ordered field and $I$ is an
integer part of $F$. We show that some of these theorems are hold
unconditionally in general case (ordered fields with an integer part). The
remainder results are based on Dirichlet's and Kronecker's theorems. Finally we
extend Dirichlet's theorem to ordered fields with $IE_1$ integer part.
  We consider the problem of reconstructing, from the interior data $u(x,1)$, a
function $u$ satisfying a nonlinear elliptic equation $$ \Delta u =
f(x,y,u(x,y)), x \in \RR, y > 0. $$
  We obtain integral representations of solutions to special cases of the
Fuchsian system of differential equations and Heun's differential equation. In
particular, we calculate the monodromy of solutions to the Fuchsian equation
that corresponds to Picard's solution of the sixth Painlev\'e equation, and to
Heun's equation.
  In this paper we consider the Cahn-Hilliard equation endowed with Wentzell
boundary condition which is a model of phase separation in a binary mixture
contained in a bounded domain with permeable wall. Under the assumption that
the nonlinearity is analytic with respect to unknown dependent function, we
prove the convergence of a global solution to an equilibrium as time goes to
infinity by means of a suitable \L ojasiewicz-Simon type inequality with
boundary term. Estimates of convergence rate are also provided.
  In this article wavelets (admissible vectors) on the Heisenberg group are
studied from the point of view of Calderon's formula. Further we shall show
that for the class of Schwartz functions the Calderon admissibility condition
is equivalent to the usual admissibility property which will be introduced in
this work. Furthermore motivated by a well-known example on the real line, the
Mexican-Hat wavelet, we demonstrate the existence and construction of an
analogous wavelet on the Heisenberg Lie group with 2 vanishing moments, which
together with all of its derivatives has Gaussian decay.
  In this paper we introduce linear mapping D from WnF\subset Ln into Lm\times
Rm, induced by linear differential equation d/dt
Fx(t)-C(t)x(t)=f(t),Fx(t_0)=f_0. We prove that D is closed dense defined
mapping for any m\times n-matrix F. Also adjoint mapping D* is constructed and
its domain WmF is described. Some kind of so-called "integration by parts"
formula for vectors from WnF, WmF is suggested. We obtain a necessary and
sufficient condition for existence of generalized solution of equation
Dx=(f,f_0). Also we find a sufficient criterion for closureness of the R(D) in
Lm\times Rm which is formulated in terms of transparent conditions for blocks
of matrix C(t). Some examples are supplied to illustrate obtained results.
  We construct all planar semimodular lattices in three simple steps from the
direct product of two chains.
  In this paper we present new formulas, which represent commutators and
anticommutators of Clifford algebra elements as sums of elements of different
ranks. Using these formulas we consider subalgebras of Lie algebras of
pseudounitary groups. Our main techniques are Clifford algebras. We have find
12 types of subalgebras of Lie algebras of pseudounitary groups.
  We address the important theoretical question why a recurrent neural network
with fixed weights can adaptively classify time-varied signals in the presence
of additive noise and parametric perturbations. We provide a mathematical proof
assuming that unknown parameters are allowed to enter the signal nonlinearly
and the noise amplitude is sufficiently small.
  We investigate the Galois group $G_S(p)$ of the maximal $p$-extension
unramified outside a finite $S$ of primes of a number field in the (tame) case,
when no prime dividing $p$ is in $S$. We show that the cohomology of $G_S(p)$
is 'often' isomorphic to the etale cohomology of the scheme $\Spec(\O_k \sm
S)$, in particular, $G_S(p)$ is of cohomological dimension~2 then.
  In the present paper we determine for each parallelizable smooth compact
manifold $M$ the cohomology spaces $H^2(V_M,\bar\Omega^p_M)$ of the Lie algebra
$V_M$ of smooth vector fields on $M$ with values in the module $\bar\Omega^p_M
= \Omega^p_M/d\Omega^{p-1}_M$. The case of $p=1$ is of particular interest
since the gauge algebra $C^\infty (M,k)$ has the universal central extension
with center $\bar\Omega^1_M$, generalizing affine Kac-Moody algebras. The
second cohomology $H^2(V_M, \bar\Omega^1_M)$ classifies twists of the
semidirect product of $V_M$ with the universal central extension $C^\infty
(M,k) \oplus \bar\Omega^1_M$.
  The average R(t) of a smooth function with respect to the SRB measure of a
smooth one-parameter family f_t of piecewise expanding interval maps is not
always Lipschitz. We prove that if f_t is tangent to the topological class of
f_0, then R(t) is differentiable at zero, and the derivative coincides with the
resummation previously proposed by the first named author of the (a priori
divergent) series given by Ruelle's conjecture.
  We show that an automorphism of an arbitrary CAT(0) cube complex either has a
fixed point or preserves some combinatorial axis. It follows that when a group
contains a distorted cyclic subgroup, it admits no proper action on a discrete
space with walls.
  We show that the set of the equivalence classes of multifoliate structures is
in one-to-one correspondence with the set of equivalence classes of finite
complete projective systems of vector space epimorphisms. After that we give
the complete description of all product preserving bundle functors on the
categories of multifibered and multifoliate manifolds.
  In this paper the following three control systems for first-order time-delay
plants are studied and compared: the feedback proportional-integral controller
(PI), the Smith Predictor (SP) and a proposed variable structure consisting of
two blocks. This structure acts as an open-loop proportional controller, after
a setpoint change, and as a closed-loop integrating controller, when the error
enters in a preset band. A chart, provided with the borderlines of the
stability zone and with the curves of two design parameters, is implemented for
each controller. The first parameter is the overshoot of the controlled
variable, evaluated during a step change of the setpoint and made equal to a
preset value. The second parameter, only for the PI and SP controllers, is the
integral of the squared error (ISE), which must have the minimum allowable
value. The ISE is also assumed as comparison index and the proposed controller
appears as the best.
  Let $K$ be a field and $V$ and $W$ be $K$-vector spaces of dimension $m$ and
$n$. Let $\phi$ be the canonical map from $Hom(V,W)$ to $Hom(\wedge^t
V,\wedge^t W)$. We investigate the Zariski closure $X_t$ of the image $Y_t$ of
$\phi$. In the case $t=\min(m,n)$, $Y_t=X_t$ is the cone over a Grassmannian,
but $X_t$ is larger than $Y_t$ for $1<t<\min(m,n)$. We analyze the
$G=\GL(V)\times\GL(W)$-orbits in $X_t$ via the corresponding $G$-stable prime
ideals. It turns out that they are classified by two numerical invariants, one
of which is the rank and the other a related invariant that we call small rank.
Surprisingly, the orbits in $X_t\setminus Y_t$ arise from the images $Y_u$ for
$u<t$ and simple algebraic operations. In the last section we determine the
singular locus of $X_t$. Apart from well-understood exceptional cases, it is
formed by the elements of rank $\le 1$ in $Y_t$.
  In this paper, we study the primitive ideals of quantum algebras supporting a
rational torus action. We first prove a quantum analogue of a Theorem of
Dixmier; namely, we show that the Gelfand-Kirillov dimension of primitive
factors of various quantum algebras is always even. Next we give a
combinatorial criterion for a prime ideal that is invariant under the torus
action to be primitive. We use this criterion to obtain a formula for the
number of primitive ideals in the algebra of $2\times n$ quantum matrices that
are invariant under the action of the torus. Roughly speaking, this can be
thought of as giving an enumeration of the points that are invariant under the
induced action of the torus in the ``variety of $2\times n$ quantum matrices''.
  The analysis of the dynamics of a material point perfectly constrained to a
submanifold of the three-dimensional euclidean space and subjected to a locally
conservative force's field, namely a force's field corresponding to a closed
but not necessarily exact differential form on such a submanifold, requires a
generalization of the Lagrangian and the Hamiltonian formalism that is here
developed.
  Given a quiver algebra A with relations defined by a superpotential, this
paper defines a set of invariants of A counting framed cyclic A-modules,
analogous to rank-1 Donaldson-Thomas invariants of Calabi-Yau threefolds. For
the special case when A is the non-commutative crepant resolution of the
threefold ordinary double point, it is proved using torus localization that the
invariants count certain pyramid-shaped partition-like configurations, or
equivalently infinite dimer configurations in the square dimer model with a
fixed boundary condition. The resulting partition function admits an infinite
product expansion, which factorizes into the rank-1 Donaldson-Thomas partition
functions of the commutative crepant resolution of the singularity and its
flop. The different partition functions are speculatively interpreted as
counting stable objects in the derived category of A-modules under different
stability conditions; their relationship should then be an instance of wall
crossing in the space of stability conditions on this triangulated category.
  Translation from the Latin of "Annotationes in locum quendam Cartesii ad
circuli quadraturam spectantem" (1763).
  The passage Euler is referring to is the "Excerpta" in part 6, p. 6 of
Descartes' 1701 "Opuscula posthuma".
  Before reading this paper I had not heard of the "quadratrix" before, and I
recommend learning a bit about it before reading this. I found Thomas Heath, "A
history of Greek mathematics", vol. I, chapter VII to be helpful, in particular
pp. 226-230. The quadratrix is a "mechanical curve" that can be used to rectify
the circle. The usual problem of squaring the circle is to construct a square
with the same area (or perimeter) as a given circle, in a finite number of
steps using compass and straightedge. Descartes worked in the reverse
direction: from a given square he constructed the radius of a circle with the
same perimeter, but in an infinite number of steps.
  In this paper Euler reconstructs Descartes' argument and develops some
consequences of it. Euler finds that \[ \sum_{n=0}^\infty \frac{1}{2^n} \tan
\frac{1}{2^n}\phi = \frac{1}{\phi} - 2\cot 2\phi. \] Integrating this yields \[
\prod_{n=1}^\infty \sec \frac{1}{2^n} \phi = \frac{2\phi}{\sin 2\phi}. \]
  I'd like to thank Davide Crippa from the University of Paris 7 for some
helpful back and forth about this paper.
  One of the only citations to this paper that I have found is in Pietro
Ferroni, De calculo integralium exercitatio mathematica, Allegrini, Florence,
1792, pp. xxi--xxiii. The full text of it is available on Google Books.
  We develop a fine-scale local analysis of measure entropy and measure
sequence entropy based on combinatorial independence. The concepts of measure
IE-tuples and measure IN-tuples are introduced and studied in analogy with
their counterparts in topological dynamics. Local characterizations of the
Pinsker von Neumann algebra and its sequence entropy analogue are given in
terms of combinatorial independence, l_1 geometry, and Voiculescu's completely
positive approximation entropy. Among the novel features of our local study is
the treatment of general discrete acting groups, with the structural assumption
of amenability in the case of entropy.
  We prove that the cohomology groups of a definably compact set over an
o-minimal expansion of a group are finitely generated and invariant under
elementary extensions and expansions of the language. We also study the
cohomology of the intersection of a definable decreas-ing family of definably
compact sets, under the additional assumption that the o-minimal structure
expands a field.
  A locally compact group $G$ is amenable if and only if it has Reiter's
property $(P_p)$ for $p=1$ or, equivalently, all $p \in [1,\infty)$, i.e.,
there is a net $(m_\alpha)_\alpha$ of non-negative norm one functions in
$L^p(G)$ such that $\lim_\alpha \sup_{x \in K} \| L_{x^{-1}} m_\alpha -
m_\alpha \|_p = 0$ for each compact subset $K \subset G$ ($L_{x^{-1}} m_\alpha$
stands for the left translate of $m_\alpha$ by $x^{-1}$). We extend the
definitions of properties $(P_1)$ and $(P_2)$ from locally compact groups to
locally compact quantum groups in the sense of J. Kustermans and S. Vaes. We
show that a locally compact quantum group has $(P_1)$ if and only if it is
amenable and that it has $(P_2)$ if and only if its dual quantum group is
co-amenable. As a consequence, $(P_2)$ implies $(P_1)$.
  We illustrate the concept of mathematical proof.
  We extend the complete Mellin (CM) representation of Feynman amplitudes to
the non-commutative quantum field theories. This representation is a versatile
tool. It provides a quick proof of meromorphy of Feynman amplitudes in
parameters such as the dimension of space-time. In particular it paves the road
for the dimensional renormalization of these theories. This complete Mellin
representation also allows the study of asymptotic behavior under rescaling of
arbitrary subsets of external invariants of any Feynman amplitude.
  We consider Khudaverdian's geometric version of a Batalin-Vilkovisky (BV)
operator \Delta_E in the case of a degenerate anti-Poisson manifold. The
characteristic feature of such an operator (aside from being a Grassmann-odd,
nilpotent, second-order differential operator) is that it sends semidensities
to semidensities. We find a local formula for the \Delta_E operator in
arbitrary coordinates. As an important application of this setup, we consider
the Dirac antibracket on an antisymplectic manifold with antisymplectic
second-class constraints. We show that the entire Dirac construction, including
the corresponding Dirac BV operator \Delta_{E_D}, exactly follows from
conversion of the antisymplectic second-class constraints into first-class
constraints on an extended manifold.
  J. Angulo and J. F. Montenegro (J. Differential Equations 174 (2001), no. 1,
181-199) published a paper about nonlinear stability of solitary waves for an
interaction system between a long internal wave and a short surface wave in a
two layer fluid considering that the fluid depth of the lower layer is
sufficiently large in comparison with the wavelength of the internal wave. In
this note, we show that in a critical step during the proof of Lemma 2.4 in the
above mentioned paper, there is a claim used by the authors which fails to be
true. Lemma 2.4 is crucial for the proof of Lemma 2.7, and for the proof of
stability in Theorem 2.1 in the paper before mentioned.
  A commutative loop is Jordan if it satisfies the identity $x^2 (y x) = (x^2
y) x$. Using an amalgam construction and its generalizations, we prove that a
nonassociative Jordan loop of order $n$ exists if and only if $n\geq 6$ and
$n\neq 9$. We also consider whether powers of elements in Jordan loops are
well-defined, and we construct an infinite family of finite simple
nonassociative Jordan loops.
  The goal of this expository article is to present a proof that is as direct
and elementary as possible of the fundamental theorem of complex multiplication
(Shimura, Taniyama, Langlands, Tate, Deligne et al.).
  The article is a revision of part of my manuscript, Complex Multiplication,
April 7, 2006.
  The notions of mass and center of mass are extended to laminae of the
hyperbolic plane. The resulting formulae contain many surprises.
  We describe various approaches to understanding Fukaya categories of
cotangent bundles. All of the approaches rely on introducing a suitable class
of noncompact Lagrangian submanifolds. We review the work of Nadler-Zaslow
(math/0604379, math/0612399) and the authors (math/0701783), before discussing
a new approach using family Floer cohomology and the ``wrapped Fukaya
category''. The latter, inspired by Viterbo's symplectic homology, emphasises
the connection to loop spaces, hence seems particularly suitable when trying to
extend the existing theory beyond the simply-connected case.
  Oriented ribbon graphs (dessins d'enfant) are graphs embedded in oriented
surfaces. A quasi-tree of a ribbon graph is a spanning subgraph with one face,
which is described by an ordered chord diagram. We show that for any link
diagram $L$, there is an associated ribbon graph whose quasi-trees correspond
bijectively to spanning trees of the graph obtained by checkerboard coloring
$L$. This correspondence preserves the bigrading used for the spanning tree
model of Khovanov homology, whose Euler characteristic is the Jones polynomial
of $L$. Thus, Khovanov homology can be expressed in terms of ribbon graphs,
with generators given by ordered chord diagrams.
  We give a bound on the spectral radius of subgraphs of regular graphs with
given order and diameter. We give a lower bound on the smallest eigenvalue of a
nonbipartite regular graph of given order and diameter.
  Oriented ribbon graphs (dessins d'enfant) are graphs embedded in oriented
surfaces. The Bollob\'as-Riordan-Tutte polynomial is a three-variable
polynomial that extends the Tutte polynomial to oriented ribbon graphs. A
quasi-tree of a ribbon graph is a spanning subgraph with one face, which is
described by an ordered chord diagram. We generalize the spanning tree
expansion of the Tutte polynomial to a quasi-tree expansion of the
Bollob\'as-Riordan-Tutte polynomial.
  We consider the problem of estimating a density $f_X$ using a sample
$Y_1,...,Y_n$ from $f_Y=f_X\star f_{\epsilon}$, where $f_{\epsilon}$ is an
unknown density. We assume that an additional sample
$\epsilon_1,...,\epsilon_m$ from $f_{\epsilon}$ is observed. Estimators of
$f_X$ and its derivatives are constructed by using nonparametric estimators of
$f_Y$ and $f_{\epsilon}$ and by applying a spectral cut-off in the Fourier
domain. We derive the rate of convergence of the estimators in case of a known
and unknown error density $f_{\epsilon}$, where it is assumed that $f_X$
satisfies a polynomial, logarithmic or general source condition. It is shown
that the proposed estimators are asymptotically optimal in a minimax sense in
the models with known or unknown error density, if the density $f_X$ belongs to
a Sobolev space $H_{\mathbh p}$ and $f_{\epsilon}$ is ordinary smooth or
supersmooth.
  We give a summary (without proofs) of the main results in the author's thesis
entitled ``Construction of biclosed categories'' (University of New South
Wales, Australia, 1970). This summary is reprinted directly from Report 81-0030
of the School of Mathematics and Physics, Macquarie University, April 1981. In
particular, it gives sufficient conditions for existence of an extension of a
(pro)monoidal category structure along a given dense functor to a cocomplete
category. The two basic procedures used in the proof turn out to be special
cases of the final result, the two respective dense functors then being the
Yoneda embedding followed by a localisation. The final result has a standard
universal property based on left Kan extension of (pro)monoidal functors along
the given dense functor, however this property is not stated explicitly here.
  The structure of Poisson polynomial algebras of the type obtained as
semiclassical limits of quantized coordinate rings is investigated. Sufficient
conditions for a rational Poisson action of a torus on such an algebra to leave
only finitely many Poisson prime ideals invariant are obtained. Combined with
previous work of the first-named author, this establishes the Poisson
Dixmier-Moeglin equivalence for large classes of Poisson polynomial rings, such
as semiclassical limits of quantum matrices, quantum symplectic and euclidean
spaces, quantum symmetric and antisymmetric matrices. For a similarly large
class of Poisson polynomial rings, it is proved that the quotient field of the
algebra (respectively, of any Poisson prime factor ring) is a rational function
field $F(x_1,...,x_n)$ over the base field (respectively, over an extension
field of the base field) with $\{x_i,x_j\}= \lambda_{ij} x_ix_j$ for suitable
scalars $\lambda_{ij}$, thus establishing a quadratic Poisson version of the
Gel'fand-Kirillov problem. Finally, partial solutions to the isomorphism
problem for Poisson fields of the type just mentioned are obtained.
  The two-parameter Poisson--Dirichlet distribution is a probability
distribution on the totality of positive decreasing sequences with sum 1 and
hence considered to govern masses of a random discrete distribution. A
characterization of the associated point process (that is, the random point
process obtained by regarding the masses as points in the positive real line)
is given in terms of the correlation functions. Using this, we apply the theory
of point processes to reveal the mathematical structure of the two-parameter
Poisson--Dirichlet distribution. Also, developing the Laplace transform
approach due to Pitman and Yor, we are able to extend several results
previously known for the one-parameter case. The Markov--Krein identity for the
generalized Dirichlet process is discussed from the point of view of functional
analysis based on the two-parameter Poisson--Dirichlet distribution.
  In the study of time-dependent waves, it is computationally expensive to
solve a problem in which high frequencies (shortwaves, with wavenumber k =
kmax) and low frequencies (longwaves, near k=kmin) mix. Consider a problem in
which low frequencies scatter off a sharp impurity. The impurity generates high
frequencies which propagate and spread throughout the computational domain,
while the domain must be large enough to contain several longwaves.
Conventional spectral methods have computational cost proportional to
O(kmax/kmin \log (kmax/kmin)).
  We present here a multiscale algorithm (implemented for the Schrodinger
equation, but generally applicable) which solves the problem with cost (in
space and time) O(kmax L log(kmax / kmin) \log(kmax L)). Here, L is the width
of the region in which the algorithm resolves all frequencies, and is
independent of kmin.
  We explore the extent to which a variant of a celebrated formula due to Jost
and Pais, which reduces the Fredholm perturbation determinant associated with
the Schr\"odinger operator on a half-line to a simple Wronski determinant of
appropriate distributional solutions of the underlying Schr\"odinger equation,
generalizes to higher dimensions. In this multi-dimensional extension the
half-line is replaced by an open set $\Omega\subset\bbR^n$, $n\in\bbN$, $n\geq
2$, where $\Omega$ has a compact, nonempty boundary $\partial\Omega$ satisfying
certain regularity conditions. Our variant involves ratios of perturbation
determinants corresponding to Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions on
$\partial\Omega$ and invokes the corresponding Dirichlet-to-Neumann map. As a
result, we succeed in reducing a certain ratio of modified Fredholm
perturbation determinants associated with operators in $L^2(\Omega; d^n x)$,
$n\in\bbN$, to modified Fredholm determinants associated with operators in
$L^2(\partial\Omega; d^{n-1}\sigma)$, $n\geq 2$.
  Applications involving the Birman-Schwinger principle and eigenvalue counting
functions are discussed.
  We find the Stratonovich-Weyl quantizer for the nonunimodular affine group of
the line. A noncommutative product of functions on the half-plane, underlying a
noncompact spectral triple in the sense of Connes, is obtained from it. The
corresponding Wigner functions reproduce the time-frequency distributions of
signal processing. The same construction leads to scalar Fourier
transformations on the affine group, simplifying and extending the Fourier
transformation proposed by Kirillov.
  If H is a finite dimensional quasi-Hopf algebra and A is a left H-module
algebra, we prove that there is a Morita context connecting the smash product
A#H and the subalgebra of invariants A^{H}. We define also Galois extensions
and prove the connection with this Morita context, as in the Hopf case.
  Sturm oscillation theorem for second order differential equations was
generalized to systems and higher order equations with positive leading
coefficient by several authors. What we propose here is a Sturm oscillation
theorem for systems of even order having strongly indefinite leading
coefficient.
  In this paper we continue the investigation started in [A.M.St.-Small],
dealing with bialgebras $A$ with an $H$-bilinear coalgebra projection over an
arbitrary subbialgebra $H$ with antipode. These bialgebras can be described as
deformed bosonizations $R#_{\xi} H$ of a pre-bialgebra $R$ by $H$ with a
cocycle $\xi$. Here we describe the behavior of $\xi$ in the case when $R$ is
f.d. and thin i.e. it is connected with one dimensional space of primitive
elements. This is used to analyze the arithmetic properties of $A$. Meaningful
results are obtained when $H$ is cosemisimple. By means of Ore extension
construction, we provide some examples of atypical situations (e.g. the
multiplication of $R$ is not $H$-colinear or $\xi$ is non-trivial).
  The purpose of this paper is to prove that integral Chow rings of toric
stacks are naturally isomorphic to Stanley-Reisner rings.
  A linear ball is a simplicial complex whose geometric realization is
homeomorphic to a ball and whose Stanley--Reisner ring has a linear resolution.
It turns out that the Stanley--Reisner ring of the sphere which is the boundary
complex of a linear ball satisfies the multiplicity conjecture. A class of
shellable spheres arising naturally from commutative algebra whose
Stanley--Reisner rings satisfy the multiplicity conjecture will be presented.
  Consider the Jacobian of a hyperelliptic genus two curve defined over a prime
field of characteristic p and with complex multiplication. In this paper we
show that the p-Sylow subgroup of the Jacobian is either trivial or of order p.
  We study the problem of constructing coded modulation schemes over
multidimensional signal sets in Nakagami-$m$ block-fading channels. In
particular, we consider the optimal diversity reliability exponent of the error
probability when the multidimensional constellation is obtained as the rotation
of classical complex-plane signal constellations. We show that multidimensional
rotations of full dimension achieve the optimal diversity reliability exponent,
also achieved by Gaussian constellations. Multidimensional rotations of full
dimension induce a large decoding complexity, and in some cases it might be
beneficial to use multiple rotations of smaller dimension. We also study the
diversity reliability exponent in this case, which yields the optimal
rate-diversity-complexity tradeoff in block-fading channels with discrete
inputs.
  Generalizations of Ostrowski type inequality for functions of Lipschitzian
type are established. Applications in numerical integration and cumulative
distribution functions are also given.
  We describe the spectrum of the $k$-form Laplacian on conformally cusp
Riemannian manifolds. The essential spectrum is shown to vanish precisely when
the $k$ and $k-1$ de Rham cohomology groups of the boundary vanish. We give
Weyl-type asymptotics for the eigenvalue-counting function in the purely
discrete case. In the other case we analyze the essential spectrum via positive
commutator methods and establish a limiting absorption principle. This implies
the absence of the singular spectrum for a wide class of metrics. We also
exhibit a class of potentials $V$ such that the Schr\"odinger operator has
compact resolvent, although $V$ tends to $-\infty$ in most of the infinity. We
correct a statement from the literature regarding the essential spectrum of the
Laplacian on forms on hyperbolic manifolds of finite volume, and we propose a
conjecture about the existence of such manifolds in dimension four whose cusps
are rational homology spheres.
  This paper is painfully withdrawn.
  We present a series of new results we obtained recently about the
intersection numbers of tautological classes on moduli spaces of curves,
including a simple formula of the n-point functions for Witten's $\tau$
classes, an effective recursion formula to compute higher Weil-Petersson
volumes, several new recursion formulae of intersection numbers and our proof
of a conjecture of Itzykson and Zuber concerning denominators of intersection
numbers. We also present Virasoro and KdV properties of generating functions of
general mixed $\kappa$ and $\psi$ intersections.
  By considering the one-particle and two-particle scattering data of the
spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain at T=0 we derive a continuum limit relating the spin
chain to the 1D Bose gas. Applying this limit to the quantum transfer matrix
approach of the Heisenberg chain we obtain expressions for the correlation
functions of the Bose gas at arbitrary temperatures.
  We reinvestigate the 2D problem of the inhomogeneous incipient infinite
cluster where, in an independent percolation model, the density decays to p_c
with an inverse power, \lambda, of the distance to the origin. Assuming the
existence of critical exponents (as is known in the case of the triangular site
lattice) if the power is less than 1/\nu, with \nu the correlation length
exponent, we demonstrate an infinite cluster with scale dimension given by
D_H=2-\beta\lambda. Further, we investigate the critical case \lambda_c=1/\nu
and show that iterated logarithmic corrections will tip the balance between the
possibility and impossibility of an infinite cluster.
  We define and study symmetrized and antisymmetrized multivariate exponential
functions. They are defined as determinants and antideterminants of matrices
whose entries are exponential functions of one variable. These functions are
eigenfunctions of the Laplace operator on corresponding fundamental domains
satisfying certain boundary conditions. To symmetric and antisymmetric
multivariate exponential functions there correspond Fourier transforms. There
are three types of such Fourier transforms: expansions into corresponding
Fourier series, integral Fourier transforms, and multivariate finite Fourier
transforms. Eigenfunctions of the integral Fourier transforms are found.
  Any non-degenerate quadratic form over a Hilbertian field (e.g., a number
field) is isomorphic to a scaled trace form. In this work we extend this result
to more general fields. In particular, prosolvable and prime-to-p extensions of
a Hilbertian field. The proofs are based on the theory of PAC extensions.
  A detailed analysis of the wave-mode structure in a bend and its
incorporation into a stable algorithm for calculation of the scattering matrix
of the bend is presented. The calculations are based on the modal approach. The
stability and precision of the algorithm is numerically and analytically
analysed. The algorithm enables precise numerical calculations of scattering
across the bend. The reflection is a purely quantum phenomenon and is discussed
in more detail over a larger energy interval. The behaviour of the reflection
is explained partially by a one-dimensional scattering model and heuristic
calculations of the scattering matrix for narrow bends. In the same spirit we
explain the numerical results for the Wigner-Smith delay time in the bend.
  We consider scalar-tensor theories and reconstruct their potential U(\Phi)
and coupling F(\Phi) by demanding a background LCDM cosmology. In particular we
impose a background cosmic history H(z) provided by the usual flat LCDM
parameterization through the radiation (w_{eff}=1/3), matter (w_{eff}=0) and
deSitter (w_{eff}=-1) eras. The cosmological dynamical system which is
constrained to obey the LCDM cosmic history presents five critical points in
each era, one of which corresponding to the standard General Relativity (GR).
In the cases that differ from GR, the reconstructed coupling and potential are
of the form F(\Phi)\sim \Phi^2 and U(\Phi)\sim F(\Phi)^m where m is a constant.
This class of scalar tensor theories is also theoretically motivated by a
completely independent approach: imposing maximal Noether symmetry on the
scalar-tensor Lagrangian. This approach provides independently: i) the form of
the coupling and the potential as F(\Phi)\sim \Phi^2 and U(\Phi)\sim F(\Phi)^m,
ii) a conserved charge related to the potential and the coupling and iii)
allows the derivation of exact solutions by first integrals of motion.
  Invariance principles are obtained for a Markov process on a half-line with
continuous paths on the interior. The domains of attraction of the two
different types of self-similar processes are investigated. Our approach is to
establish convergence of excursion point processes, which is based on It\^{o}'s
excursion theory and a recent result on convergence of excursion measures by
Fitzsimmons and the present author.
  An orthogonal array OA(q^{2n-1},q^{2n-2}, q,2) is constructed from the action
of a subset of PGL(n+1,q^2) on some non--degenerate Hermitian varieties in
PG(n,q^2). It is also shown that the rows of this orthogonal array correspond
to some blocks of an affine design, which for q> 2 is a non--classical model of
the affine space AG(2n-1,q).
  We give a complete list of normal forms for the 2-dimensional metrics that
admit a transitive Lie pseudogroup of geodesic-preserving transformations and
we show that these normal forms are mutually non-isometric. This solves a
problem posed by Sophus Lie.
  We study here a heat-type differential equation of order n greater than two,
in the case where the time-derivative is supposed to be fractional. The
corresponding solution can be described as the transition function of a
pseudoprocess (coinciding with the one governed by the standard,
non-fractional, equation) with a time argument T which is itself random. The
distribution of T is presented together with some features of the solution
(such as analytic expressions for its moments).
  We completely describe all integer symmetric matrices that have all their
eigenvalues in the interval [-2,2]. Along the way we classify all signed
graphs, and then all charged signed graphs, having all their eigenvalues in
this same interval. We then classify subsets of the above for which the integer
symmetric matrices, signed graphs and charged signed graphs have all their
eigenvalues in the open interval (-2,2).
  We show that Mirzakhani's recursions for the volumes of moduli space of
Riemann surfaces are a special case of random matrix loop equations, and
therefore we confirm again that Kontsevitch's integral is a generating function
for those volumes. As an application, we propose a formula for the
Weil-Petersson volume Vol(M_{g,0}).
  We develop some theory of spinal decompositions of discrete and continuous
fragmentation trees. Specifically, we consider a coarse and a fine spinal
integer partition derived from spinal tree decompositions. We prove that for a
two-parameter Poisson--Dirichlet family of continuous fragmentation trees,
including the stable trees of Duquesne and Le Gall, the fine partition is
obtained from the coarse one by shattering each of its parts independently,
according to the same law. As a second application of spinal decompositions, we
prove that among the continuous fragmentation trees, stable trees are the only
ones whose distribution is invariant under uniform re-rooting.
  The Vlasov equation for the collisionless evolution of the single-particle
probability distribution function (PDF) is a well-known Lie-Poisson Hamiltonian
system. Remarkably, the operation of taking the moments of the Vlasov PDF
preserves the Lie-Poisson structure. The individual particle motions correspond
to singular solutions of the Vlasov equation. The paper focuses on singular
solutions of the problem of geodesic motion of the Vlasov moments. These
singular solutions recover geodesic motion of the individual particles.
  We prove the existence of an ergodic measure with full Hausdorff dimension
for a class of nonlinear nonconformal skew-product transformations. In order to
do so we establish a variational principle for the topological pressure of
certain noncompact sets.
  Preface (A.Vershik) - about these texts (3.);
  I.Interpolation between inductive and projective limits of finite groups with
applicatons to linear groups over finite fields;
  II.The characters of the groups of almost triangle matrices over finite
filed;
  III.A Law of Large Numbers for the characters of GL_n(k) over finite field k;
  IV.An outline of construction of factor representations of the group
GLB(F_q).
  We study the general structure of Fermi conformal nets of von Neumann
algebras on the circle, consider a class of topological representations, the
general representations, that we characterize as Neveu-Schwarz or Ramond
representations, in particular a Jones index can be associated with each of
them. We then consider a supersymmetric general representation associated with
a Fermi modular net and give a formula involving the Fredholm index of the
supercharge operator and the Jones index. We then consider the net associated
with the super-Virasoro algebra and discuss its structure. If the central
charge c belongs to the discrete series, this net is modular by the work of F.
Xu and we get an example where our setting is verified by considering the
Ramond irreducible representation with lowest weight c/24. We classify all the
irreducible Fermi extensions of any super-Virasoro net in the discrete series,
thus providing a classification of all superconformal nets with central charge
less than 3/2.
  Let $p$ be prime, $N$ be a positive integer prime to $p$, and $k$ be an
integer. Let $P_k(t)$ be the characteristic series for Atkin's $U$ operator as
an endomorphism of $p$-adic overconvergent modular forms of tame level $N$ and
weight $k$. Motivated by conjectures of Gouvea and Mazur, we strengthen Wan's
congruence between coefficients of $P_k$ and $P_{k'}$ for $k'$ close
$p$-adically to $k$. For $p-1 | 12$, $N = 1$, $k = 0$, we compute a matrix for
$U$ whose entries are coefficients in the power series of a rational function
of two variables. We apply this computation to show for $p = 3$ a parabola
below the Newton polygon $N_0$ of $P_0$, which coincides with $N_0$ infinitely
often. As a consequence, we find a polygonal curve above $N_0$. This tightest
bound on $N_0$ yields the strongest congruences between coefficients of $P_0$
and $P_k$ for $k$ of large 3-adic valuation.
  The interplay between the Hamilton-Jacobi theory of orthogonal separation of
variables and the theory of group actions is investigated based on concrete
examples.
  We study the Koplienko Spectral Shift Function (KoSSF), which is distinct
from the one of Krein (KrSSF). KoSSF is defined for pairs $A,B$ with
$(A-B)\in\calI_2$, the Hilbert-Schmidt operators, while KrSSF is defined for
pairs $A,B$ with $(A-B)\in\calI_1$, the trace class operators. We review
various aspects of the construction of both KoSSF and KrSSF. Among our new
results are: (i) that any positive Riemann integrable function of compact
support occurs as a KoSSF; (ii) that there exist $A,B$ with $(A-B)\in\calI_2$
so $\det_2((A-z)(B-z)^{-1})$ does not have nontangential boundary values; (iii)
an alternative definition of KoSSF in the unitary case; and (iv) a new proof of
the invariance of the a.c. spectrum under $\calI_1$-perturbations that uses the
KrSSF.
  Minimum distance diagrams are a way to encode the diameter and routing
information of multi-loop networks. For the widely studied case of double-loop
networks, it is known that each network has at most two such diagrams and that
they have a very definite form "L-shape''.
  In contrast, in this paper we show that there are triple-loop networks with
an arbitrarily big number of associated minimum distance diagrams. For doing
this, we build-up on the relations between minimum distance diagrams and
monomial ideals.
  Properties of the shuffle product suggest the definition of a quadratic form
with domain and values in formal power series over a field of characteristic 2.
This quadratic form preserves rational (respectively algebraic) power series
and its restriction to the affine subspace of series with constant term 1 is
bijective. Conjecturally, this bijection restricts to a bijection of rational
(respectively algebraic) formal power series.
  We provide a simple proof, as well as several generalizations, of a recent
result by Davis and Suh, characterizing a class of continuous submartingales
and supermartingales that can be expressed in terms of a squared Brownian
motion and of some appropriate powers of its maximum. Our techniques involve
elementary stochastic calculus, as well as the Doob-Meyer decomposition of
continuous submartingales. These results can be used to obtain an explicit
expression of the constants appearing in the Burkholder-Davis-Gundy
inequalities. A connection with some balayage formulae is also established.
  This paper has been withdrawn by the author in favor of a stronger result
proven by the author with R. Frank and T. Weidl in arXiv:0707.0998
  Using fish-covering model, this paper intuitively explains how to extend
Hartley's information formula to the generalized information formula step by
step for measuring subjective information: metrical information (such as
conveyed by thermometers), sensory information (such as conveyed by color
vision), and semantic information (such as conveyed by weather forecasts). The
pivotal step is to differentiate condition probability and logical condition
probability of a message. The paper illustrates the rationality of the formula,
discusses the coherence of the generalized information formula and Popper's
knowledge evolution theory. For optimizing data compression, the paper
discusses rate-of-limiting-errors and its similarity to complexity-distortion
based on Kolmogorov's complexity theory, and improves the rate-distortion
theory into the rate-fidelity theory by replacing Shannon's distortion with
subjective mutual information. It is proved that both the rate-distortion
function and the rate-fidelity function are equivalent to a
rate-of-limiting-errors function with a group of fuzzy sets as limiting
condition, and can be expressed by a formula of generalized mutual information
for lossy coding, or by a formula of generalized entropy for lossless coding.
By analyzing the rate-fidelity function related to visual discrimination and
digitized bits of pixels of images, the paper concludes that subjective
information is less than or equal to objective (Shannon's) information; there
is an optimal matching point at which two kinds of information are equal; the
matching information increases with visual discrimination (defined by confusing
probability) rising; for given visual discrimination, too high resolution of
images or too much objective information is wasteful.
  We consider $C=A+B$ where $A$ is selfadjoint with a gap $(a,b)$ in its
spectrum and $B$ is (relatively) compact. We prove a general result allowing
$B$ of indefinite sign and apply it to obtain a $(\delta V)^{d/2}$ bound for
perturbations of suitable periodic Schrodinger operators and a (not
quite)Lieb-Thirring bound for perturbations of algebro-geometric almost
periodic Jacobi matrices.
  Computations with Barvinok's short rational generating functions are
traditionally being performed in the dual space, to avoid the combinatorial
complexity of inclusion--exclusion formulas for the intersecting proper faces
of cones. We prove that, on the level of indicator functions of polyhedra,
there is no need for using inclusion--exclusion formulas to account for
boundary effects: All linear identities in the space of indicator functions can
be purely expressed using half-open variants of the full-dimensional polyhedra
in the identity. This gives rise to a practically efficient, parametric
Barvinok algorithm in the primal space.
  This thesis studies some examples of families of K3 surfaces with Picard
lattices of maximal rank. These families occur as invariants of finite
automorphism groups. The Picard-Fuchs differential equations describing the
variation of Hodge structure in these families are considered. Techniques are
developed to find the corresponding monodromy groups as arithmetic Fuchsian
groups acting on the families' period spaces.
  This article is devoted to a Log improvement of Prodi-Serrin criterion for
global regularity to solutions to Navier-Stokes equations in dimension 3. It is
shown that the global regualrity holds under the condition that |u|^5/ log
(1+|u|) is integrable in space time variables.
  This paper provides a proof of a LLT-like test for Fermat numbers, based on
the properties of Lucas Sequences and on the method of Lehmer.
  We show that an eternal solution to a complete, locally conformally flat
Yamabe flow, $\frac{\partial}{\partial t} g = -Rg$, with uniformly bounded
scalar curvature and positive Ricci curvature at $t = 0$, where the scalar
curvature assumes its maximum is a gradient steady soliton. As an application
of that, we study the blow up behavior of $g(t)$ at the maximal time of
existence, $T < \infty$. We assume that $(M,g(\cdot, t))$ satisfies (i) the
injectivity radius bound {\bf or} (ii) the Schouten tensor is positive at time
$t = 0$ and the scalar curvature bounded at each time-slice. We show that the
singularity the flow develops at time $T$ is always of type I.
  We prove the existence of a global attractor for the Newton-Boussinesq
equation defined in a two-dimensional channel. The asymptotic compactness of
the equation is derived by the uniform estimates on the tails of solutions. We
also establish the regularity of the global attractor.
  We derive differential inequalities and difference inequalities for Riesz
means of eigenvalues of the Dirichlet Laplacian,
  R_{\sigma}(z) := \sum_k{(z -\lambda_k)_+^{\sigma}}.
  Here ${\lambda_k}_{k=1}^{\infty}$ are the ordered eigenvalues of the
Laplacian on a bounded domain $\Omega \subset \R^d$, and $x_+ := \max(0, x)$
denotes the positive part of the quantity $x$. As corollaries of these
inequalities, we derive Weyl-type bounds on $\lambda_k$, on averages such as
$\bar{\lambda_k} := {\frac 1 k}\sum_{\ell \le k}\lambda_\ell$, and on the
eigenvalue counting function. For example, we prove that for all domains and
all $k \ge j \frac{1+\frac d 2}{1+\frac d 4}$,
  {\bar{\lambda_{k}}}/{\bar{\lambda_{j}}} \le 2 (\frac{1+\frac d 4}{1+\frac d
2})^{1+\frac 2 d}({\frac k j})^{\frac 2 d}.
  We study a boundary-value quasilinear elliptic problem on a generic time
scale. Making use of the fixed-point index theory, sufficient conditions are
given to obtain existence, multiplicity, and infinite solvability of positive
solutions.
  We analyze fading relay networks, where a single-antenna source-destination
terminal pair communicates through a set of half-duplex single-antenna relays
using a two-hop protocol with linear processing at the relay level. A family of
relaying schemes is presented which achieves the entire optimal
diversity-multiplexing (DM) tradeoff curve. As a byproduct of our analysis, it
follows that delay diversity and phase-rolling at the relay level are optimal
with respect to the entire DM-tradeoff curve, provided the delays and the
modulation frequencies, respectively, are chosen appropriately.
  It is known that von Neumann-Landau wave equation can present a mathematical
formalism of motion of quantum mechanics, that is an extension of
Schr\"{o}dinger's wave equation. In this paper, we concern with the Dirichlet
problem of the stationary von Neumann-Landau wave equation:
  {(- \triangle_x + \triangle_y) \Phi (x, y) = 0, x, y \in \Omega,
  \Phi|_{\partial \Omega \times \partial \Omega} = f, where $\Omega$ is a
bounded domain in $\mathbf{R}^n.$ By introducing anti-inner product spaces, we
show the existence and uniqueness of the generalized solution for the above
Dirichlet problem by functional-analytic methods.
  A dynamical system on the total space of the fibre bundle of second order
accelerations, $T^2M$, is defined as a third order vector field $S$ on $T^2M$,
called semispray, which is mapped by the second order tangent structure into
one of the Liouville vector field. For a regular Lagrangian of second order we
prove that this semispray is uniquely determined by two associated
Cartan-Poincar\'e one-forms. To study the geometry of this semispray we
construct a nonlinear connection, which is a Lagrangian subbundle for the
presymplectic structure. Using this semispray and the associated nonlinear
connection we define covariant derivatives of first and second order. With
respect to this, the second order dynamical derivative of the Lagrangian metric
tensor vanishes.
  A new type of ensemble filter is proposed, which combines an ensemble Kalman
filter (EnKF) with the ideas of morphing and registration from image
processing. This results in filters suitable for nonlinear problems whose
solutions exhibit moving coherent features, such as thin interfaces in wildfire
modeling. The ensemble members are represented as the composition of one common
state with a spatial transformation, called registration mapping, plus a
residual. A fully automatic registration method is used that requires only
gridded data, so the features in the model state do not need to be identified
by the user. The morphing EnKF operates on a transformed state consisting of
the registration mapping and the residual. Essentially, the morphing EnKF uses
intermediate states obtained by morphing instead of linear combinations of the
states.
  We construct knot invariants from the radical part of projective modules of
restricted quantum groups. We also show a relation between these invariants and
the colored Alexander invariants.
  In this paper we consider a special class of polymorphisms with invariant
measure, - (cf.[1])- the algebraic polymorphisms of compact groups. A general
polymorphism is -- by definition -- a many-valued map with invariant measure,
and the conjugate operator of a polymorphism is a Markov operator (i.e., a
positive operator on $L^2$ of norm 1 which preserves the constants). In the
algebraic case a polymorphism is a correspondence in the sense of algebraic
geometry, but here we investigate it from a dynamical point of view. The most
important examples are the algebraic polymorphisms of torus, where we introduce
a parametrization of the semigroup of toral polymorphisms in terms of rational
matrices and describe the spectra of the corresponding Markov operators.
  We present a new proof of Reidemeister and Singer's Theorem that any two
Heegaard splittings of the same 3-manifold have a common stabilization. The
proof leads to an upper bound on the minimal genus of a common stabilization in
terms of the number of negative slope inflection points and type-two cusps in a
Rubinstein-Scharlemann graphic for the two splittings.
  It is conjectured that a hyperbolic knot admits at most three Dehn surgeries
which yield closed three manifolds containing incompressible tori. We show that
there exist infinitely many hyperbolic knots which attain the conjectural
maximum number. Interestingly, those surgeries correspond to consecutive
integers.
  First three sections of this overview paper cover classical topics of
deformation theory of associative algebras and necessary background material.
We then analyze algebraic structures of the Hochschild cohomology and describe
the relation between deformations and solutions of the corresponding
Maurer-Cartan equation. In Section 6 we generalize the Maurer-Cartan equation
to strongly homotopy Lie algebras and prove the homotopy invariance of the
moduli space of solutions of this equation. In the last section we indicate the
main ideas of Kontsevich's proof of the existence of deformation quantization
of Poisson manifolds.
  The Kac model describes the local evolution of a gas of $N$ particles with
three dimensional velocities by a random walk in which the steps correspond to
binary collisions that conserve momentum as well as energy. The state space of
this walk is a sphere of dimension $3N - 4$. The Kac conjecture concerns the
spectral gap in the one step transition operator $Q$ for this walk. In this
paper, we compute the exact spectral gap.
  As in previous work by Carlen, Carvalho and Loss where a lower bound on the
spectral gap was proved, we use a method that relates the spectral properties
of $Q$ to the spectral properties of a simpler operator $P$, which is simply an
average of certain non commuting projections. The new feature is that we show
how to use a knowledge of certain eigenfunctions and eigenvalues of $P$ to
determine spectral properties of $Q$, instead of simply using the spectral gap
for $P$ to bound the spectral gap for $Q$, inductively in $N$, as in previous
work. The methods developed here can be applied to many other high--dimensional
stochastic process, as we shall explain.
  We also use some deep results on Jacobi polynomials to obtain the required
spectral information on $P$, and we show how the identity through which Jacobi
polynomials enter our problem may be used to obtain new bounds on Jacobi
polynomials.
  Based on projective representations of smooth Deligne cohomology groups, we
introduce an analogue of the space of conformal blocks to compact oriented
(4k+2)-dimensional Riemannian manifolds with boundary. For the standard
(4k+2)-dimensional disk, we compute the space concretely to prove that its
dimension is finite.
  We review and streamline our previous results and the results of Y.Ostrover
on the existence of Calabi quasi-morphisms and symplectic quasi-states on
symplectic manifolds with semi-simple quantum homology. As an illustration, we
discuss the case of symplectic toric Fano 4-manifolds. We present also new
results due to D.McDuff: she observed that for the existence of
quasi-morphisms/quasi-states it suffices to assume that the quantum homology
contains a field as a direct summand, and she showed that this weaker condition
holds true for one point blow-ups of non-uniruled symplectic manifolds.
  In this paper we obtain a Hamilton-Jacobi theory for nonholonomic mechanical
systems. The results are applied to a large class of nonholonomic mechanical
systems, the so-called \v{C}aplygin systems.
  In this paper we classify constant angle surfaces in $\H^2\times\R$, where
$\H^2$ is the hyperbolic plane.
  We show that if A is a subset of {1, ..., n} such that it has no pairs of
elements whose difference is equal to p-1 with p a prime number, then the size
of A is O(n(loglog n)^(-clogloglogloglog n)) for some positive constant c.
  We study stability conditions induced by functors between triangulated
categories. Given a finite group acting on a smooth projective variety we prove
that the subset of invariant stability conditions embeds as a closed
submanifold into the stability manifold of the equivariant derived category. As
an application we examine stability conditions on Kummer and Enriques surfaces
and we improve the derived version of the Torelli Theorem for the latter
surfaces already present in the litterature. We also study the relationship
between stability conditions on projective spaces and those on their canonical
bundles.
  The purpose of this paper is to describe the relation between the Legendre
and the Lenstra constants. Indeed we show that they are equal whenever the
Legendre constant exists; in particular, this holds for both Rosen continued
fractions and $\alpha$-continued fractions. We also give the explicit value of
the entropy of the Rosen map with respect to the absolutely continuous
invariant probability measure.
  We consider insurance derivatives depending on an external physical risk
process, for example a temperature in a low dimensional climate model. We
assume that this process is correlated with a tradable financial asset. We
derive optimal strategies for exponential utility from terminal wealth,
determine the indifference prices of the derivatives, and interpret them in
terms of diversification pressure. Moreover we check the optimal investment
strategies for standard admissibility criteria. Finally we compare the static
risk connected with an insurance derivative to the reduced risk due to a
dynamic investment into the correlated asset. We show that dynamic hedging
reduces the risk aversion in terms of entropic risk measures by a factor
related to the correlation.
  The paper has two goals: the study the associated graded ring of contracted
homogeneous ideals in $K[x,y]$ and the study of the Groebner fan of the ideal
$P$ of the rational normal curve in ${\bf P}^d$. These two problems are, quite
surprisingly, very tightly related. We completely classify the contracted
ideals with a Cohen-Macaulay associated graded rings in terms of the numerical
invariants arising from Zariski's factorization. We determine explicitly all
the initial ideals (monomial or not) of $P$ that are Cohen-Macaulay.
  The spectrum of the normalized graph Laplacian yields a very comprehensive
set of invariants of a graph. In order to understand the information contained
in those invariants better, we systematically investigate the behavior of this
spectrum under local and global operations like motif doubling, graph joining
or splitting. The eigenvalue 1 plays a particular role, and we therefore
emphasize those constructions that change its multiplicity in a controlled
manner, like the iterated duplication of nodes.
  Consider the empirical spectral distribution of complex random $n\times n$
matrix whose entries are independent and identically distributed random
variables with mean zero and variance $1/n$. In this paper, via applying
potential theory in the complex plane and analyzing extreme singular values, we
prove that this distribution converges, with probability one, to the uniform
distribution over the unit disk in the complex plane, i.e. the well known
circular law, under the finite fourth moment assumption on matrix elements.
  The \textit{parabolic scalar curvature equation} is a reaction-diffusion type
equation on an $(n-1)$-manifold $\Sigma$, the time variable of which shall be
denoted by $r$. Given a function $R$ on $[r_0,r_1)\times\Sigma$ and a family of
metrics $\gamma(r)$ on $\Sigma$, when the coefficients of this equation are
appropriately defined in terms of $\gamma$ and $R$, positive solutions give
metrics of prescribed scalar curvature $R$ on $[r_0,r_1)\times\Sigma$ in the
form \[ g=u^2dr^2+r^2\gamma.\] If the area element of $r^2\gamma$ is expanding
for increasing $r$, then the equation is parabolic, and the basic existence
problem is to take positive initial data at some $r=r_0$ and solve for $u$ on
the maximal interval of existence, which above was implicitly assumed to be
$I=[r_0,r_1)$; one often hopes that $r_1=\infty$. However, the case of greatest
physical interest, $R>0$, often leads to blow-up in finite time so that
$r_1<\infty$. It is the purpose of the present work to investigate the
situation in which the blow-up nonetheless occurs in such a way that $g$ is
continuously extendible to $\bar M=[r_0,r_1]\times\Sigma$ as a manifold with
totally geodesic outer boundary at $r=r_1$.
  In this paper we extend the construction of the canonical polarized variation
of Hodge structures over tube domain considered by B. Gross in \cite{G} to
bounded symmetric domain and introduce a series of invariants of infinitesimal
variation of Hodge structures, which we call characteristic subvarieties. We
prove that the characteristic subvariety of the canonical polarized variations
of Hodge structures over irreducible bounded symmetric domains are identified
with the characteristic bundles defined by N. Mok in \cite{M}. We verified the
generating property of B. Gross for all irreducible bounded symmetric domains,
which was predicted in \cite{G}.
  Using the Chen-Stein method, we show that the spatial distribution of large
finite clusters in the supercritical FK model approximates a Poisson process
when the ratio weak mixing property holds.
  We consider backward stochastic differential equations (BSDE) with nonlinear
generators typically of quadratic growth in the control variable. A measure
solution of such a BSDE will be understood as a probability measure under which
the generator is seen as vanishing, so that the classical solution can be
reconstructed by a combination of the operations of conditioning and using
martingale representations. In case the terminal condition is bounded and the
generator fulfills the usual continuity and boundedness conditions, we show
that measure solutions with equivalent measures just reinterpret classical
ones. In case of terminal conditions that have only exponentially bounded
moments, we discuss a series of examples which show that in case of
non-uniqueness classical solutions that fail to be measure solutions can
coexists with different measure solutions.
  We study some examples of Bridgeland-Douglas stability conditions on
triangulated categories. From one side we give a complete description of the
stability manifolds for smooth projective curves of positive genus. From the
other side we study stability conditions on triangulated categories generated
by an exceptional collection. In the case of the projective line this leads to
the connectedness and simply-connectedness of the stability manifold.
  This paper extends the inductive approach to the lace expansion of van der
Hofstad and Slade in order to prove Gaussian asymptotic behaviour for models
with critical dimension other than 4. The results are applied by Holmes to
study sufficiently spread-out lattice trees in dimensions d>8 and may also be
applicable to percolation in dimensions d>6.
  A sectionally pseudocomplemented poset P is one which has the top element and
in which every principal order filter is a pseudocomplemented poset. The
sectional pseudocomplements give rise to an implication-like operation on P
which coincides with the relative pseudocomplementation if P is relatively
psudocomplemented. We characterise this operation and study some elementary
properties of upper semilattices, lower semilattices and lattices equipped with
this kind of implication. We deal also with a few weaker versions of
implication. Sectionally pseudocomplemented lattices have already been studied
in the literature.
  The unique solvability of parabolic equations in Sobolev spaces with mixed
norms is presented. The second order coefficients (except $a^{11}$) are assumed
to be only measurable in time and one spatial variable, and VMO in the other
spatial variables. The coefficient $a^{11}$ is measurable in one spatial
variable and VMO in the other variables.
  We introduce the notion of strong Morita equivalence for group actions on
locally C*-algebras and prove that the crossed products associated with two
strongly Morita equivalent continuous inverse limit actions of a locally
compact group G on the locally C*-algebras A and B are strongly Morita
equivalent. This generalizes a result of F. Combes, Proc. London Math. Soc.
49(1984) and R. E. Curto, P.S. Muhly, D. P. Williams, Proc. Amer. Soc.
90(1984).
  Let Q(S) be the moduli space of area one holomorphic quadratic differentials
for an oriented surface S of genus g with m punctures and 3g-3+m>1. We show
that the supremum over all compact subsets K of Q(S) of the asymptotic growth
rate of the number of periodic orbits of the Teichmueller flow which are
contained in K equals h=6g-6+2m. Moreover, h is also the supremum of the
topological entropies of the restriction of the Teichmueller flow to compact
invariant subsets of Q(S).
  We extend to the context of locally C*-algebras a result of F. Combes [Proc.
London Math. Soc. 49(1984), 289-306].
  Let $G=(S, E)$ be a plane straight-line graph on a finite point set
$S\subset\R^2$ in general position. The incident angles of a vertex $p \in S$
of $G$ are the angles between any two edges of $G$ that appear consecutively in
the circular order of the edges incident to $p$.
  A plane straight-line graph is called $\phi$-open if each vertex has an
incident angle of size at least $\phi$. In this paper we study the following
type of question: What is the maximum angle $\phi$ such that for any finite set
$S\subset\R^2$ of points in general position we can find a graph from a certain
class of graphs on $S$ that is $\phi$-open? In particular, we consider the
classes of triangulations, spanning trees, and paths on $S$ and give tight
bounds in most cases.
  We extend harmonic map techniques to the setting of more general differential
equations in conformal geometry. We obtain an extension of Siu's rigidity to
Kahler-Weyl geometry and apply the latter to Vaisman's conjecture. Other
applications include topological obstructions to the existence of Kahler-Weyl
structures. For example, we show that no co-compact lattice in SO(1,n), n>2,
can be the fundamental group of a compact Kahler-Weyl manifold of certain type.
  We introduce the $R$ cut-off covering spectrum and the cut-off covering
spectrum of a complete length space or Riemannian manifold. The spectra measure
the sizes of localized holes in the space and are defined using covering spaces
called $\delta$ covers and $R$ cut-off $\delta$ covers. They are investigated
using $\delta$ homotopies which are homotopies via grids whose squares are
mapped into balls of radius $\delta$.
  On locally compact spaces, we prove that these new spectra are subsets of the
closure of the length spectrum. We prove the $R$ cut-off covering spectrum is
almost continuous with respect to the pointed Gromov-Hausdorff convergence of
spaces and that the cut-off covering spectrum is also relatively well behaved.
This is not true of the covering spectrum defined in our earlier work which was
shown to be well behaved on compact spaces. We close by analyzing these spectra
on Riemannian manifolds with lower bounds on their sectional and Ricci
curvature and their limit spaces.
  We give a new description of the data needed to specify a morphism from a
scheme to a toric Deligne-Mumford stack. The description is given in terms of a
collection of line bundles and sections which satisfy certain conditions. As
applications, we characterize any toric Deligne-Mumford stack as a product of
roots of line bundles over the rigidified stack, describe the torus action,
describe morphisms between toric Deligne-Mumford stacks with complete coarse
moduli spaces in terms of homogeneous polynomials, and compare two different
definitions of toric stacks.
  In these notes, we survey the homology of the loop group Omega(K) of a
compact group K, also known as the affine Grassmannian of a complex loop group.
Using the Bott picture of H_*(Omega(K)), the homology algebra or Pontryagin
ring, we obtain two new results: A. Factorization of affine Schubert homology
classes. B. Definition of affine Schubert polynomials representing the affine
Schubert homology classes in all types, in terms similar to ordinary Schubert
polynomials.
  Given a Riemannian metric on a homotopy $n$-sphere, sweep it out by a
continuous one-parameter family of closed curves starting and ending at point
curves. Pull the sweepout tight by, in a continuous way, pulling each curve as
tight as possible yet preserving the sweepout. We show:
  Each curve in the tightened sweepout whose length is close to the length of
the longest curve in the sweepout must itself be close to a closed geodesic. In
particular, there are curves in the sweepout that are close to closed
geodesics.
  Finding closed geodesics on the 2-sphere by using sweepouts goes back to
Birkhoff in 1917.
  As an application, we bound from above, by a negative constant, the rate of
change of the width for a one-parameter family of convex hypersurfaces that
flows by mean curvature. The width is loosely speaking up to a constant the
square of the length of the shortest closed curve needed to ``pull over'' $M$.
This estimate is sharp and leads to a sharp estimate for the extinction time;
cf. [CM1], [CM2] where a similar bound for the rate of change for the two
dimensional width is shown for homotopy 3-spheres evolving by the Ricci flow
(see also Perelman).
  It is shown that the sharp constant in the Hardy-Sobolev-Maz'ya inequality on
the three dimensional upper half space is given by the Sobolev constant. This
is achieved by a duality argument relating the problem to a
Hardy-Littlewood-Sobolev type inequality whose sharp constant is determined as
well.
  R. Rim\'anyi defined the incidence class of two singularities X and Y as
$[X]|_Y$, the restriction of the Thom polynomial of X to Y. He conjectured that
(under mild conditions) the incidence is not zero if and only if Y is in the
closure of X. Generalizing this notion we define the incidence class of two
orbits X and Y of a representation. We give a sufficient condition (positivity)
for Y to have the property that the incidence class $[X]|_Y$ is not zero if and
only if Y is in the closure of X for any other orbit X. We show that for many
interesting cases, e.g. the quiver representations of Dynkin type positivity
holds for all orbits. In other words in these cases the incidence classes
completely determine the hierarchy of the orbits. We also study the case of
singularities where positivity doesn't hold for all orbits.
  We extend Witt's theorem to several kinds of simultaneous isometries of
subspaces. We determine sufficient and necessary conditions for the extension
of an isometry of subspaces $\phi:E\to E'$ to an isometry $\phi_V:V\to V'$ that
also sends a given subspace to another, or a given self-dual flag to another,
or a Witt's decomposition to another and a special self-dual flag to another.
We also determine sufficient and necessary conditions for the isometry of
generic flags or the simultaneous isometry of (subspace, self-dual flag) pairs.
  We survey the history of totally positive matrices and the generalization to
Lie groups. We describe a reduction of a bilinear form to a canonical form
(generalizing the case of symplectic nondegenerate forms) using ideas from
total positivity; we also place this in a Lie group context. We give a short
exposition of results of Fock and Goncharov on the study of homomorphisms of
the fundamental group of a closed surface into a Lie group.
  The joint cumulative distribution function for order statistics arising from
several different populations is given in terms of the distribution function of
the populations. The computational cost of the formula in the case of two
populations is still exponential in the worst case, but it is a dramatic
improvement compared to the general formula by Bapat and Beg. In the case when
only the joint distribution function of a subset of the order statistics of
fixed size is needed, the complexity is polynomial, for the case of two
populations.
  We develop a skein exact sequence for knot Floer homology, involving singular
knots. This leads to an explicit, algebraic description of knot Floer homology
in terms of a braid projection of the knot.
  Let (M^n, g) be a closed smooth Riemannian spin manifold and denote by D its
Atiyah-Singer-Dirac operator. We study the variation of Riemannian metrics for
the zeta function and functional determinant of D^2, and prove finiteness of
the Morse index at stationary metrics, and local extremality at such metrics
under general, i.e. not only conformal, change of metrics.
  In even dimensions, which is also a new case for the conformal Laplacian, the
relevant stability operator is of log-polyhomogeneous pseudodifferential type,
and we prove new results of independent interest, on the spectrum for such
operators. We use this to prove local extremality under variation of the
Riemannian metric, which in the important example when (M^n, g) is the round
n-sphere, gives a partial verification of Branson's conjecture on the pattern
of extremals. Thus det(D^2) has a local (max, max, min, min) when the dimension
is (4k, 4k + 1, 4k + 2, 4k + 3), respectively.
  Let F be a Henselian valued field with char(F) = p and D a semi-ramified,
"not strongly degenerate" p-algebra. We show that all Galois subfields of D are
inertial. Using this as a tool we study generic abelian crossed product
p-algebras, proving among other things that the noncyclic generic abelian
crossed product p-algebras defined by non-degenerate matrices are
indecomposable p-algebras. To construct examples of these indecomposable
p-algebras with exponent p and large index we study the relationship between
degeneracy in matrices defining abelian crossed products and torsion in CH^2 of
Severi-Brauer varieties.
  We prove that the set of Farey fractions of order $T$, that is, the set
$\{\alpha/\beta \in \Q : \gcd(\alpha, \beta) = 1, 1 \le \alpha, \beta \le T\}$,
is uniformly distributed in residue classes modulo a prime $p$ provided $T \ge
p^{1/2 +\eps}$ for any fixed $\eps>0$. We apply this to obtain upper bounds for
the Lang--Trotter conjectures on Frobenius traces and Frobenius fields ``on
average'' over a one-parametric family of elliptic curves.
  We propose a method for the treatment of two--point boundary value problems
given by nonlinear ordinary differential equations. The approach leads to
sequences of roots of Hankel determinants that converge rapidly towards the
unknown parameter of the problem. We treat several problems of physical
interest: the field equation determining the vortex profile in a
Ginzburg--Landau effective theory, the fixed--point equation for Wilson's exact
renormalization group, a suitably modified Wegner--Houghton's fixed point
equation in the local potential approximation, a Riccati equation, and the
Thomas--Fermi equation. We consider two models where the approach does not
apply in order to show the limitations of our Pad\'{e}--Hankel approach.
  Discrete control systems, as considered here, refer to the control theory of
discrete-time Lagrangian or Hamiltonian systems. These discrete-time models are
based on a discrete variational principle, and are part of the broader field of
geometric integration. Geometric integrators are numerical integration methods
that preserve geometric properties of continuous systems, such as conservation
of the symplectic form, momentum, and energy. They also guarantee that the
discrete flow remains on the manifold on which the continuous system evolves,
an important property in the case of rigid-body dynamics.
  In nonlinear control, one typically relies on differential geometric and
dynamical systems techniques to prove properties such as stability,
controllability, and optimality. More generally, the geometric structure of
such systems plays a critical role in the nonlinear analysis of the
corresponding control problems. Despite the critical role of geometry and
mechanics in the analysis of nonlinear control systems, nonlinear control
algorithms have typically been implemented using numerical schemes that ignore
the underlying geometry.
  The field of discrete control system aims to address this deficiency by
restricting the approximation to choice of a discrete-time model, and
developing an associated control theory that does not introduce any additional
approximation. In particular, this involves the construction of a control
theory for discrete-time models based on geometric integrators that yields
numerical implementations of nonlinear and geometric control algorithms that
preserve the crucial underlying geometric structure.
  Let X be a topological space. The closure of \Delta = {(x, x) : x \in X} in X
\times X is a symmetric relation on X. We characterise those equivalence
relations on an infinite set that arise as the closure of the diagonal with
respect to a T_1-topology.
  The ordering relation of a bounded distributive lattice L is a (distributive)
(0, 1)-sublattice of L \times L. This construction gives rise to a functor \Phi
from the category of bounded distributive lattices to itself. We examine the
interaction of \Phi with Priestley duality and characterise those bounded
distributive lattices L such that there is a bounded distributive lattice K
such that \Phi(K) is (isomorphic to) L.
  Molecular biology is a nanotechnology that works--it has worked for billions
of years and in an amazing variety of circumstances. At its core is a system
for acquiring, processing and communicating information that is universal, from
viruses and bacteria to human beings. Advances in genetics and experience in
designing computers have taken us to a stage where we can understand the
optimisation principles at the root of this system, from the availability of
basic building blocks to the execution of tasks. The languages of DNA and
proteins are argued to be the optimal solutions to the information processing
tasks they carry out. The analysis also suggests simpler predecessors to these
languages, and provides fascinating clues about their origin. Obviously, a
comprehensive unraveling of the puzzle of life would have a lot to say about
what we may design or convert ourselves into.
  We discuss the structure of Dyson--Schwinger equations in quantum gravity and
conclude in particular that all relevant skeletons are of first order in the
loop number. There is an accompanying sub Hopf algebra on gravity amplitudes
equivalent to identities between n-graviton scattering amplitudes which
generalize the Slavnov Taylor identities. These identities map the infinite
number of charges and finite numbers of skeletons in gravity to an infinite
number of skeletons and a finite number of charges needing renormalization. Our
analysis suggests that gravity, regarded as a probability conserving but
perturbatively non-renormalizable theory, is renormalizable after all, thanks
to the structure of its Dyson--Schwinger equations.
  A derivation of the equations of motion of general relativity is presented
that does not invoke the Axiom of Choice, but requires the explicit
construction of a choice function q for continuous three-space regions. The
motivation for this (seemingly academic) endeavour is to take the background
independence intrinsic to Einstein gravity one step further, and to assure that
both the equations of motion and the way in which those equations of motion are
derived are as self-consistent as possible. That is, solutions to the equations
of motion of general relativity endow a three-space region with a physical and
distinguishing geometry in four-dimensional space-time. However, in order to
derive these equations of motion one should first be able to choose a
three-space region without having any prior knowledge of its physically
appropriate geometry. The expression of this choice process requires a
three-dimensional topological manifold Q, to which all considered three-space
regions belong, and that generates an equation of motion whose solutions are q.
These solutions relate the effects of curvature to the source term through the
topology of Q and constitute Einstein gravity. Q is given by 2T^3+3S^1xS^2, and
is embedded in four dimensions. This points toward a hidden topological content
for general relativity, best phrased as: Q and q provide a structure for how to
choose a three-space region irrespective of what geometric properties it has,
while at the same time Q and q determine that only GR can endow a three-space
with those geometric properties. In this sense, avoiding the Axiom of Choice
allows one to gain physical insight into GR. Possible links with holography are
pointed out.
  We are going to determine all the self-injective cluster tilted algebras. All
are of finite representation type and special biserial.
  Let R be a ring (associative, with 1). A non-zero module M is said to be a
Pruefer module provided there exists a surjective, locally nilpotent
endomorphism with kernel of finite length. The aim of this note is construct
Pruefer modules starting from a pair of module homomorphisms w,v: U_0 -> U_1,
where w is injective and its cokernel is of finite length.
  We investigate the structure of Kubo - Martin - Schwinger (KMS) states on
some extension of the universal enveloping algebra of SL(2,C}. We find that
there exists a one-to-one correspondence between the set of all covariant KMS
states on this algebra and the set of all probability measures d\mu on the real
half-line, which decrease faster than any inverse polynomial. This problem is
connected to the problem of KMS states on square of white noise algebra.
  While the tangent space to an equisingular family of curves can be discribed
by the sections of a twisted ideal sheaf, this is no longer true if we only
prescribe the multiplicity which a singular point should have. However, it is
still possible to compute the dimension of the tangent space with the aid of
the equimulitplicity ideal. In this note we consider families L_m={(C,p) |
mult_p(C)=m} with C in some linear system |L| on a smooth projective surface S
and for a fixed positive integer m, and we compute the dimension of the tangent
space to L_m at a point (C,p) depending on whether p is a unitangential
singular point of C or not. We deduce that the expected dimension of L_m at
(C,p) in any case is just dim|L|+2-m*(m+1)/2. The result is used in the study
of triple-point defective surfaces in some joint papers with Luca Chiantini.
  In this paper we study the linear series |L-3p| of hyperplane sections with a
triple point p of a surface S embedded via a very ample line bundle L for a
general point p. If this linear series does not have the expected dimension we
call (S,L) triple-point defective. We show that on a triple-point defective
regular surface through a general point every hyperplane section has either a
triple component or the surface is rationally ruled and the hyperplane section
contains twice a fibre of the ruling.
  In arXive:0705.3912 we studied triple-point defective very ample linear
systems on regular surfaces, and we showed that they can only exist if the
surface is ruled. In the present paper we show that we can drop the regularity
assumption, and we classify the triple-point defective very ample linear
systems on ruled surfaces.
  An algorithm to obtain equations between theta functions with integral
characteristics evaluated at $\tau$ and $p\tau$ for $g>1$ is presented.
  Let $V$ denote a vector space with finite positive dimension. We consider a
pair of linear transformations $A : V \to V$ and $A^* : V \to V$ that satisfy
(i) and (ii) below:
  (i) There exists a basis for $V$ with respect to which the matrix
representing $A$ is irreducible tridiagonal and the matrix representing $A^*$
is diagonal.
  (ii) There exists a basis for $V$ with respect to which the matrix
representing $A^*$ is irreducible tridiagonal and the matrix representing $A$
is diagonal.
  We call such a pair a Leonard pair on $V$. In an earlier paper we described
24 special bases for $V$. One feature of these bases is that with respect to
each of them the matrices that represent $A$ and $A^*$ are (i) diagonal and
irreducible tridiagonal or (ii) irreducible tridiagonal and diagonal or (iii)
lower bidiagonal and upper bidiagonal or (iv) upper bidiagonal and lower
bidiagonal. For each ordered pair of bases among the 24, there exists a unique
linear transformation from $V$ to $V$ that sends the first basis to the second
basis; we call this the transition map. In this paper we find each transition
map explicitly as a polynomial in $A,A^*$.
  We study some reduced free products of C*-algebras with amalgamations. We
give sufficient conditions for the positive cone of the K_0 group to be the
largest possible. We also give sufficient conditions for simplicity and
uniqueness of trace. We use the later result to give a necessary and sufficient
condition for simplicity and uniqueness of trace of the reduced C*-algebras of
the Baumslag-Solitar groups BS(m,n).
  Given a finite collection P of convex n-polytopes in RP^n (n>1), we consider
a real projective manifold M which is obtained by gluing together the polytopes
in P along their facets in such a way that the union of any two adjacent
polytopes sharing a common facet is convex. We prove that the real projective
structure on M is (1) convex if P contains no triangular polytope, and (2)
properly convex if, in addition, P contains a polytope whose dual polytope is
thick. Triangular polytopes and polytopes with thick duals are defined as
analogues of triangles and polygons with at least five edges, respectively.
  It has been shown that the last passage time in certain symmetrized models of
directed percolation can be written in terms of averages over random matrices
from the classical groups $U(l)$, $Sp(2l)$ and $O(l)$. We present a theory of
such results based on non-intersecting lattice paths, and integration
techniques familiar from the theory of random matrices. Detailed derivations of
probabilities relating to two further symmetrizations are also given.
  Translation of the Latin original "Speculationes circa quasdam insignes
proprietates numerorum" (1784). E564 in the Enestrom index. In this paper Euler
talks about Farey sequences and proves some results about the phi function, the
number of positive integers less than and relatively prime to an integer. Euler
uses the notation pi instead of phi.
  We study the fibers of a projective morphism and some related algebraic
problems. We characterize the analytic spread of a homogeneous ideal through
properties of its syzygy matrix. Powers of linearly presented ideals need not
be linearly presented, but we identify a weaker linearity property that is
preserved under taking powers.
  We determine the isogeny classes of abelian surfaces over F_q whose group of
F_q-rational points has order divisible by q^2. We also solve the same problem
for Jacobians of genus-2 curves.
  A generalized F-structure is a complex, isotropic subbundle $E$ of
$T_cM\oplus T^*_cM$ ($T_cM=TM\otimes_{\mathds{R}}\mathds{C}$ and the metric is
defined by pairing) such that $E\cap\bar E^{\perp}=0$. If $E$ is also closed by
the Courant bracket, $E$ is a generalized CRF-structure. We show that a
generalized F-structure is equivalent with a skew-symmetric endomorphism $\Phi$
of $TM\oplus T^*M$ that satisfies the condition $\Phi^3+\Phi=0$ and we express
the CRF-condition by means of the Courant-Nijenhuis torsion of $\Phi$. The
structures that we consider are generalizations of the F-structures defined by
Yano and of the CR (Cauchy-Riemann) structures. We construct generalized
CRF-structures from: a classical F-structure, a pair $(\mathcal{V},\sigma)$
where $\mathcal{V}$ is an integrable subbundle of $TM$ and $\sigma$ is a 2-form
on $M$, a generalized, normal, almost contact structure of codimension $h$. We
show that a generalized complex structure on a manifold $\tilde M$ induces
generalized CRF-structures into some submanifolds $M\subseteq\tilde M$.
Finally, we consider compatible, generalized, Riemannian metrics and we define
generalized CRFK-structures that extend the generalized K\"ahler structures and
are equivalent with quadruples $(\gamma,F_+,F_-,\psi)$, where $(\gamma,F_\pm)$
are classical, metric CRF-structures, $\psi$ is a 2-form and some conditions
expressible in terms of the exterior differential $d\psi$ and the
$\gamma$-Levi-Civita covariant derivative $\nabla F_\pm$ hold. If $d\psi=0$,
the conditions reduce to the existence of two partially K\"ahler reductions of
the metric $\gamma$. The paper ends by an Appendix where we define and
characterize generalized Sasakian structures.
  In this paper we state and prove the analogous of the principal ideal theorem
of algebraic number theory for the case of 3-manifolds from the point of view
of arithmetic topology.
  In the previous paper "Symmetric Crystals and Affine Hecke Algebras of Type
B", we formulated a conjecture on the relations between certain classes of
irreducible representations of affine Hecke algebras of type B and symmetric
crystals for $\gl_\infty$. In the first half of this paper (sections 2 and 3),
we give a survey of the LLTA type theorem of the affine Hecke algebra of type
$A$. In the latter half (sections 4, 5 and 6), we review the construction of
the symmetric crystals and the LLTA type conjectures for the affine Hecke
algebra of type $B$.
  In this paper we use A-infinity modules to study the derived category of a
finite dimensional algebra over an algebraically closed field. We study
varieties parameterising A-infinity modules. These varieties carry an action of
an algebraic group such that orbits correspond to quasi-isomorphism classes of
complexes in the derived category. We describe orbit closures in these
varieties, generalising a result of Zwara and Riedtmann for modules.
  The existence of a "Plastikstufe" for a contact structure implies the
Weinstein conjecture for all supporting contact forms.
  In this paper we describe the facets cone associated to transversal
polymatroid presented by $\mathcal{A} =
\{\{1,2\},\{2,3\},...,\{n-1,n\},\{n,1\}\}.$ Using the Danilov-Stanley theorem
to characterize the canonicale module, we deduce that the base ring associated
to this polymatroid is Gorenstein ring. Also, starting from this polymatroid we
describe the transversal polymatroids with Gorenstein base ring in dimension 3
and with the help $\it Normaliz$ in dimension 4.
  Motivated by recent experimental and numerical studies of coherent structures
in wall-bounded shear flows, we initiate a systematic exploration of the
hierarchy of unstable invariant solutions of the Navier-Stokes equations. We
construct a dynamical, 10^5-dimensional state-space representation of plane
Couette flow at Re = 400 in a small, periodic cell and offer a new method of
visualizing invariant manifolds embedded in such high dimensions. We compute a
new equilibrium solution of plane Couette flow and the leading eigenvalues and
eigenfunctions of known equilibria at this Reynolds number and cell size. What
emerges from global continuations of their unstable manifolds is a surprisingly
elegant dynamical-systems visualization of moderate-Reynolds turbulence. The
invariant manifolds tessellate the region of state space explored by
transiently turbulent dynamics with a rigid web of continuous and discrete
symmetry-induced heteroclinic connections.
  We study the initial-boundary value problem for a nonlinear wave equation
given by u_{tt}-u_{xx}+\int_{0}^{t}k(t-s)u_{xx}(s)ds+ u_{t}^{q-2}u_{t}=f(x,t,u)
, 0 < x < 1, 0 < t < T, u_{x}(0,t)=u(0,t), u_{x}(1,t)+\eta u(1,t)=g(t),
u(x,0)=\^u_{0}(x), u_{t}(x,0)={\^u}_{1}(x), where \eta \geq 0, q\geq 2 are
given constants {\^u}_{0}, {\^u}_{1}, g, k, f are given functions. In part I
under a certain local Lipschitzian condition on f, a global existence and
uniqueness theorem is proved. The proof is based on the paper [10] associated
to a contraction mapping theorem and standard arguments of density. In Part} 2,
under more restrictive conditions it is proved that the solution u(t) and its
derivative u_{x}(t) decay exponentially to 0 as t tends to infinity.
  We construct biharmonic real hypersurfaces and Lagrangian submanifolds of
Clifford torus type in $CP^n$ via the Hopf fibration; and get new examples of
biharmonic submanifolds in $S^{2n+1}$ as byproducts .
  We show that a compact Riemannian manifold with weakly 1/4-pinched sectional
curvatures is either locally symmetric or diffeomorphic to a space form.
  Inequalities are derived for sums and quotients of eigenvalues of magnetic
Schroedinger operators with non-negative electric potentials in domains. The
bounds reflect the correct order of growth in the semi-classical limit.
  We investigate the long-term dynamics of the three-dimensional
Navier-Stokes-Voight model of viscoelastic incompressible fluid. Specifically,
we derive upper bounds for the number of determining modes for the 3D
Navier-Stokes-Voight equations and for the dimension of a global attractor of a
semigroup generated by these equations. Viewed from the numerical analysis
point of view we consider the Navier-Stokes-Voight model as a non-viscous
(inviscid) regularization of the three-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations.
Furthermore, we also show that the weak solutions of the Navier-Stokes-Voight
equations converge, in the appropriate norm, to the weak solutions of the
inviscid simplified Bardina model, as the viscosity coefficient $\nu \to 0$.
  In this paper we present a construction of the compact form of the
exceptional Lie group F4 by exponentiating the corresponding Lie algebra f4. We
realize F4 as the automorphisms group of the exceptional Jordan algebra, whose
elements are 3 x 3 hermitian matrices with octonionic entries. We use a
parametrization which generalizes the Euler angles for SU(2) and is based on
the fibration of F4 via a Spin(9) subgroup as a fiber. This technique allows us
to determine an explicit expression for the Haar invariant measure on the F4
group manifold. Apart from shedding light on the structure of F4 and its coset
manifold OP2=F4/Spin(9), the octonionic projective plane, these results are a
prerequisite for the study of E6, of which F4 is a (maximal) subgroup.
  We introduce a new technique for showing classical knots and links are not
slice. As one application we resolve a long-standing question as to whether
certain natural families of knots contain topologically slice knots. We also
present a simpler proof of the result of Cochran-Teichner that the successive
quotients of the integral terms of the Cochran-Orr-Teichner filtration of the
knot concordance group have rank 1. For links we have similar results. We show
that the iterated Bing doubles of many algebraically slice knots are not
topologically slice. Some of the proofs do not use the existence of the
Cheeger-Gromov bound, a deep analytical tool used by Cochran-Teichner. Our main
examples are actually boundary links but cannot be detected in the algebraic
boundary link concordance group, nor by any $\rho$ invariants associated to
solvable representations into finite unitary groups.
  In this paper, a novel decoding algorithm for low-density parity-check (LDPC)
codes based on convex optimization is presented. The decoding algorithm, called
interior point decoding, is designed for linear vector channels. The linear
vector channels include many practically important channels such as inter
symbol interference channels and partial response channels. It is shown that
the maximum likelihood decoding (MLD) rule for a linear vector channel can be
relaxed to a convex optimization problem, which is called a relaxed MLD
problem. The proposed decoding algorithm is based on a numerical optimization
technique so called interior point method with barrier function. Approximate
variations of the gradient descent and the Newton methods are used to solve the
convex optimization problem. In a decoding process of the proposed algorithm, a
search point always lies in the fundamental polytope defined based on a
low-density parity-check matrix. Compared with a convectional joint message
passing decoder, the proposed decoding algorithm achieves better BER
performance with less complexity in the case of partial response channels in
many cases.
  In this paper, redundant random matrix ensembles (abbreviated as redundant
random ensembles) are defined and their stopping set (SS) weight distributions
are analyzed. A redundant random ensemble consists of a set of binary matrices
with linearly dependent rows. These linearly dependent rows (redundant rows)
significantly reduce the number of stopping sets of small size. An upper and
lower bound on the average SS weight distribution of the redundant random
ensembles are shown. From these bounds, the trade-off between the number of
redundant rows (corresponding to decoding complexity of BP on BEC) and the
critical exponent of the asymptotic growth rate of SS weight distribution
(corresponding to decoding performance) can be derived. It is shown that, in
some cases, a dense matrix with linearly dependent rows yields asymptotically
(i.e., in the regime of small erasure probability) better performance than
regular LDPC matrices with comparable parameters.
  In this paper, an analysis of the undetected error probability of ensembles
of binary matrices is presented. The ensemble called the Bernoulli ensemble
whose members are considered as matrices generated from i.i.d. Bernoulli source
is mainly considered here. The main contributions of this work are (i)
derivation of the error exponent of the average undetected error probability
and (ii) closed form expressions for the variance of the undetected error
probability. It is shown that the behavior of the exponent for a sparse
ensemble is somewhat different from that for a dense ensemble. Furthermore, as
a byproduct of the proof of the variance formula, simple covariance formula of
the weight distribution is derived.
  In this paper, we introduce 3-dimensional $L-$summing method, which is a
rearrangement of the summation $\sum A_{abc}$ with $1\leq a,b,c\leq n$.
Applying this method on some special arrays, we obtain some identities on the
Riemann zeta function and digamma function. Also, we give a Maple program for
this method to obtain identities with input various arrays and out put
identities concerning some elementary functions and hypergeometric functions.
Finally, we introduce a further generalization of $L-$summing method in higher
dimension spaces.
  We give blow-up analysis for a Brezis-Merle's problem on the boundary. Also
we give a proof of a compactness result with Lipschitz condition and weaker
assumption on the regularity of the domain (smooth domain or $ C^{2,\alpha} $
domain).
  We study the mathematical evolution of a liquid fuel droplet inside a vessel.
In particular, we analyze the evolution of the droplet radius on a finite time
interval. The model problem involves an hyperbolic system coupled with the
pressure and velocity of the surrounding gas. Existence of bounded solutions
for the mass fraction of the liquid, submitted to nonlinear constraints, is
shown. Numerical simulations are given, in agreement with known physical
experiments.
  We investigate supergroups with Grassmann parameters replaced by odd Clifford
parameters. The connection with non-anticommutative supersymmetry is discussed.
A Berezin-like calculus for odd Clifford variables is introduced. Fermionic
covariant derivatives for supergroups with odd Clifford variables are derived.
Applications to supersymmetric quantum mechanics are made. Deformations of the
original supersymmetric theories are encountered when the fermionic covariant
derivatives do not obey the graded Leibniz property. The simplest non-trivial
example is given by the N=2 SQM with a real $(1,2,1)$ multiplet and a cubic
potential. The action is real. Depending on the overall sign ("Euclidean" or
"Lorentzian") of the deformation, a Bender-Boettcher pseudo-hermitian
hamiltonian is encountered when solving the equation of motion of the auxiliary
field. A possible connection of our framework with the Drinfeld twist
deformation of supersymmetry is pointed out.
  Here we prove that for dilatation structures linearity (see
arXiv:0705.1440v1) is equivalent to a statement about the inverse semigroup
generated by the family of dilatations of the space.
  The result is new for Carnot groups and the proof seems to be new even for
vector spaces.
  A periodic box-ball system (pBBS) is obtained by ultradiscretizing the
periodic discrete Toda equation (pd Toda eq.). We show the relation between a
Young diagram of the pBBS and a spectral curve of the pd Toda eq.. The formula
for the fundamental cycle of the pBBS is obtained as a colloraly.
  The projective degrees of strict partitions of n were computed for all n <
101 and the partitions with maximal projective degree were found for each n. It
was observed that maximizing partitions for successive values of n "lie close
to each other" in a certain sense. Conjecturing that this holds for larger
values of n, the partitions of maximal degree were computed for all n < 221.
The results are consistent with a recent conjecture on the limiting shape of
the strict partition of maximal projective degree.
  We study a simple transport model driven out of equilibrium by reservoirs at
the boundaries, corresponding to the hydrodynamic limit of the symmetric simple
exclusion process. We show that a nonlocal transformation of densities and
currents maps the large deviations of the model into those of an open, isolated
chain satisfying detailed balance, where rare fluctuations are the time
reversals of relaxations. We argue that the existence of such a mapping is the
immediate reason why it is possible for this model to obtain an explicit
solution for the large-deviation function of densities through elementary
changes of variables. This approach can be generalized to the other models
previously treated with the macroscopic fluctuation theory.
  This paper demonstrates that basic statistics (mean, variance) of the
logarithm of the variate itself can be used in the calculation of differential
entropy among random variables known to be multiples and powers of a common
underlying variate. For the same set of distributions, the variance of the
differential self-information is shown also to be a function of statistics of
the logarithmic variate. Then entropy and its "variance" can be estimated using
only statistics of the logarithmic variate plus constants, without reference to
the traditional parameters of the variate.
  We prove a dynamical version of the Mordell-Lang conjecture for subvarieties
of the affine space A^g over a p-adic field, endowed with polynomial actions on
each coordinate of A^g. We use analytic methods similar to the ones employed by
Skolem, Chabauty, and Coleman for studying diophantine equations.
  The limiting behavior of the normalized K\"ahler-Ricci flow for manifolds
with positive first Chern class is examined under certain stability conditions.
First, it is shown that if the Mabuchi K-energy is bounded from below, then the
scalar curvature converges uniformly to a constant. Second, it is shown that if
the Mabuchi K-energy is bounded from below and if the lowest positive
eigenvalue of the $\bar\partial^\dagger \bar\partial$ operator on smooth vector
fields is bounded away from 0 along the flow, then the metrics converge
exponentially fast in $C^\infty$ to a K\"ahler-Einstein metric.
  The anomaly found by Callan and Harvey is shown to be cancelled in a
three-dimensional noncommutative gauge theory coupled to a fermion with a mass
function depending on one spatial coordinate (domain wall mass). This
evaluation has been done for the fermion in the fundamental and adjoint
representations of the gauge group in the limit of small noncommutativity
$\theta$ parameter.
  In these lectures we consider how algebraic properties of discrete subgroups
of Lie groups restrict the possible actions of those groups on surfaces. The
results show a strong parallel between the possible actions of such a group on
the circle $S^1$ and the measure preserving actions on surfaces.
  Our aim is the study of the (non)-existence of actions of lattices in a large
class of non-compact Lie groups on surfaces. A definitive analysis of the
analogous question for actions on $S^1$ was carried out by \'E. Ghys. Our
approach is topological and insofar as possible we try to isolate properties of
a group which provide the tools necessary for our analysis. The two key
properties we consider are almost simplicity and the existence of a distortion
element. Both will be defined and described in the lectures.
  Our techniques are almost all from low dimensional dynamics. But we are
interested in how algebraic properties of a group -- commutativity, nilpotence,
etc. affect the possible kinds of dynamics which can occur. For most of the
results we will consider groups of diffeomorphisms which preserve a Borel
probability measure.
  We show that for a fixed curve $K$ and for a family of variables curves $L$,
the number of $n$-Poncelet pairs is $\frac{e (n)}{2}$, where $e(n)$ is the
number of natural numbers $m$ smaller than $n$ and which satisfies mcd $
(m,n)=1$. The curvee $K$ do not have to be part of the family.
  In order to show this result we consider an associated billiard
transformation and a twist map which preserves area.
  We use Aubry-Mather theory and the rotation number of invariant curves to
obtain our main result.
  In the last section we estimate the derivative of the rotation number of a
general twist map using some properties of the continued fraction expansion .
  We derive a two-terms asymptotics for eigenvalues of the Dirichlet Laplacian
in a narrow strip of variable width. The asymptotics is taken with respect to a
small paprameter that characterizes the width of the strip.
  We present a detailed exposition (for a Dynamical System audience) of the
content of the paper: R. Exel and A. Lopes, $C^*$ Algebras, approximately
proper equivalence relations and Thermodynamic Formalism, {\it Erg. Theo. and
Dyn. Syst.}, Vol 24, pp 1051-1082 (2004). We show only the uniqueness of the
\beta-KMS (in a certain C*-Algebra obtained from the operators acting in $L^2$
of a Gibbs invariant probability $\mu$) and its relation with the
eigen-probability $\nu_\beta$ for the dual of a certain Ruele operator. We
consider an example for a case of Hofbauer type where there exist a Phase
transition for the Gibbs state. There is no Phase transition for the KMS state.
  A lemma from elliptic theory is used to improve a recent result by Li
concerning the removability of an isolated point singularity from solutions of
the coupled Yang-Mills-Dirac equations.
  Let $S =\{x\in \re^n: g_1(x)\geq 0, ..., g_m(x)\geq 0\}$ be a semialgebraic
set defined by multivariate polynomials $g_i(x)$. Assume $S$ is convex, compact
and has nonempty interior. Let $S_i =\{x\in \re^n: g_i(x)\geq 0\}$, and $\bdS$
(resp. $\bdS_i$) be the boundary of $S$ (resp. $S_i$). This paper discusses
whether $S$ can be represented as the projection of some LMI representable set.
Such $S$ is called semidefinite representable or SDP representable. The
contributions of this paper: {\bf (i)} Assume $g_i(x)$ are all concave on $S$.
If the positive definite Lagrange Hessian (PDLH) condition holds, i.e., the
Hessian of the Lagrange function for optimization problem of minimizing any
nonzero linear function $\ell^Tx$ on $S$ is positive definite at the minimizer,
then $S$ is SDP representable. {\bf (ii)} If each $g_i(x)$ is either
sos-concave ($-\nabla^2g_i(x)=W(x)^TW(x)$ for some possibly nonsquare matrix
polynomial $W(x)$) or strictly quasi-concave on $S$, then $S$ is SDP
representable. {\bf (iii)} If each $S_i$ is either sos-convex or poscurv-convex
($S_i$ is compact convex, whose boundary has positive curvature and is
nonsingular, i.e. $\nabla g_i(x) \not = 0$ on $\bdS_i \cap S$), then $S$ is SDP
representable. This also holds for $S_i$ for which $\bdS_i \cap S$ extends
smoothly to the boundary of a poscurv-convex set containing $S$. {\bf (iv)} We
give the complexity of Schm\"{u}dgen and Putinar's matrix Positivstellensatz,
which are critical to the proofs of (i)-(iii).
  It is shown that a large subset of initial data with finite energy ($L^2$
norm)evolves nearly linearly in nonlinear Schr\" odinger equation with periodic
boundary conditions. These new solutions are not perturbations of the known
ones such as solitons, semiclassical or weakly linear solutions.
  An iterative scheme for the Dynamical Systems Method (DSM) is given such that
one does not have to solve the Cauchy problem occuring in the application of
the DSM for solving ill-conditioned linear algebraic systems. The novelty of
the algorithm is that the algorithm does not have to find the regularization
parameter $a$ by solving a nonlinear equation. Numerical experiments show that
DSM competes favorably with the Variational Regularization.
  We introduce and formalize the concept of information flux in a many-body
register as the influence that the dynamics of a specific element receive from
any other element of the register. By quantifying the information flux in a
protocol, we can design the most appropriate initial state of the system and,
noticeably, the distribution of coupling strengths among the parts of the
register itself. The intuitive nature of this tool and its flexibility, which
allow for easily manageable numerical approaches when analytic expressions are
not straightforward, are greatly useful in interacting many-body systems such
as quantum spin chains. We illustrate the use of this concept in quantum
cloning and quantum state transfer and we also sketch its extension to
non-unitary dynamics.
  A criterion is given for a type in a finite rank stable theory to be (almost)
internal to a given nonmodular minimal type. The motivation comes from results
of Campana which give criteria for compact complex analytic spaces to be
algebraic (namely Moishezon), in terms of the existence of "generating"
families of algebraic subvarieties. A model-theoretic anologue/generalisation
of Campana's results is given under the hypothesis that the theory has the
"canonical base property" (CBP), a property that is conjectured to hold in all
stable finite rank theories and which states that the type of the canonical
base over a realisation is almost internal to the minimal types of the theory.
  In the paper we study aperiodic substitutional dynamical systems arisen from
non-primitive substitutions.
  We prove that the Vershik homeomorphism $\phi$ of a stationary ordered
Bratteli diagram is homeomorphic to an aperiodic substitutional system if and
only if no restriction of $\phi$ to a minimal component is homeomorphic to an
odometer. We also show that every aperiodic substitutional system generated by
a substitution with nesting property is homeomorphic to the Vershik map of a
stationary ordered Bratteli diagram. It is proved that every aperiodic
substitutional system is recognizable. The classes of $m$-primitive
substitutions and associated to them derivative substitutions are studied. We
discuss also the notion of expansiveness for Cantor dynamical systems of finite
rank.
  We construct a non-abelian extension $\Gamma$ of $S^1$ by $\cy 3 \times \cy
3$, and prove that $\Gamma$ acts freely and smoothly on $S^{5} \times S^{5}$.
This gives new actions on $S^{5} \times S^{5}$ for an infinite family $\cP$ of
finite 3-groups. We also show that any finite odd order subgroup of the
exceptional Lie group $G_2$ admits a free smooth action on $S^{11}\times
S^{11}$. This gives new actions on $S^{11}\times S^{11}$ for an infinite family
$\cE $ of finite groups. We explain the significance of these families $\cP $,
$\cE $ for the general existence problem, and correct some mistakes in the
literature.
  Open topological string amplitudes on compact Calabi-Yau threefolds are shown
to satisfy an extension of the holomorphic anomaly equation of Bershadsky,
Cecotti, Ooguri and Vafa. The total topological charge of the D-brane
configuration must vanish in order to satisfy tadpole cancellation. The
boundary state of such D-branes is holomorphically captured by a Hodge
theoretic normal function. Its Griffiths' infinitesimal invariant is the
analogue of the closed string Yukawa coupling and plays the role of the
terminator in a Feynman diagram expansion for the topological string with
D-branes. The holomorphic anomaly equation is solved and the holomorphic
ambiguity is fixed for some representative worldsheets of low genus and with
few boundaries on the real quintic.
  In this short note we show that the existence of bilaterally symmetric
extremal K\"ahler metrics on $\mathbb{CP}^2\sharp 2\bar{\mathbb{CP}^2}$.
  We show that the following two algebras are isomorphic. The first is the
algebra $A_P$ of functions on the scheme of monic linear second-order
differential operators on $\C$ with prescribed regular singular points at
$z_1,..., z_n, \infty$, prescribed exponents $\La^{(1)}, ..., \La^{(n)},
\La^{(\infty)}$ at the singular points, and having the kernel consisting of
polynomials only. The second is the Bethe algebra of commuting linear
operators, acting on the vector space $\Sing L_{\La^{(1)}} \otimes ... \otimes
L_{\La^{(n)}}[\La^{(\infty)}]$ of singular vectors of weight $\La^{(\infty)}$
in the tensor product of finite dimensional polynomial $gl_2$-modules with
highest weights $\La^{(1)},..., \La^{(n)}$.
  We consider a multidimensional random walk in a product random environment
with bounded steps, transience in some spatial direction, and high enough
moments on the regeneration time. We prove an invariance principle, or
functional central limit theorem, under almost every environment for the
diffusively scaled centered walk. The main point behind the invariance
principle is that the quenched mean of the walk behaves subdiffusively.
  A minimal permutation representation of a finite group G is a faithful G-set
with the smallest possible size. We study the structure of such representations
and show that for certain groups they may be obtained by a greedy construction.
In these situations (except when central involutions intervene) all minimal
permutation representations have the same set of orbit sizes. Using the same
ideas we also show that if the size d(G) of a minimal faithful G-set is at
least c|G| for some c>0 then d(G) = |G|/m + O(1) for an integer m, with the
implied constant depending on c.
  A few remarks on how mathematics quests for freedom.
  This is an overview of merging the techniques of Riesz space theory and
convex geometry.
  The Local Ergodic Theorem (also known as the `Fundamental Theorem') gives
sufficient conditions under which a phase point has an open neighborhood that
belongs (mod 0) to one ergodic component. This theorem is a key ingredient of
many proofs of ergodicity for billiards and, more generally, for smooth
hyperbolic maps with singularities. However the proof of that theorem relies
upon a delicate assumption (Chernov-Sinai Ansatz), which is difficult to check
for some physically relevant models, including gases of hard balls. Here we
give a proof of the Local Ergodic Theorem for two dimensional billiards without
using the Ansatz.
  We construct non-isomorphic models M, N, e.g. of cardinality aleph_1 such
that in the Ehrenfeucht-Fraisse game of length zeta < omega_1 the isomorphism
player wins
  We prove that the automorphism group of a toric Deligne-Mumford stack is
isomorphic to the $2$-group associated to the stacky fan.
  We prove that e.g. there is no omega_4-sequence in (omega_3)^{omega_3}
increasing modulo the ideal of countable sets.
  Our aim is to improve the negative results i.e. non-existence of limit
models, and the failure of the generic pair property from math.LO/0609636 to
inaccessible lambda as promised there. The motivation is that in [Sh:F756] the
positive results are for lambda measurable hence inaccessible, whereas in
math.LO/0609636 in the negative results obtained only on non-strong limit
cardinals.
  There are Noetherian rings (in fact domains) with a free additive group, in
every infinite cardinality.
  (This is an expanded version of [SgSh:217] which appears in the Abstracts of
the American Mathematical Society 7 (1986): 369.)
  We define an infinite stochastic state machine, the Battery-Discharge-Model
(BDM), which simulates the behaviour of linear and jump complexity of the
continued fraction expansion of multidimensional formal power series, a
relevant security measure in the cryptanalysis of stream ciphers.
  We also obtain finite approximations to the infinite BDM, where polynomially
many states suffice to approximate with an exponentially small error the
probabilities and averages for linear and jump complexity of M-multisequences
of length n over the finite field F_q, for any M, n, q.
  We prove in ZFC, no psi in L_{omega_1,omega}[Q] have unique model of
uncountable cardinality, this confirms theBaldwin conjecture. But we analyze
this in more general terms. We introduce and investigate a.e.c. and also
versions of limit models, and prove some basic properties like representation
by PC class, for any a.e.c. For PC_{aleph_0}-representable a.e.c. we
investigate the conclusion of having not too many non-isomorphic models in
aleph_1 and aleph_2, but have to assume 2^{aleph_0}<2^{aleph_1} and even
2^{aleph_1}<2^{aleph_2}.
  We show that the asymptotic linear complexity of a multisequence a in
F_q^\infty that is I := liminf L_a(n)/n and S := limsup L_a(n)/n satisfy the
inequalities M/(M+1) <= S <= 1 and M(1-S) <= I <= 1-S/M, if all M sequences
have nonzero discrepancy infinitely often, and all pairs (I,S) satisfying these
conditions are met by 2^{\aleph_0} multisequences a.
  This answers an Open Problem by Dai, Imamura, and Yang.
  Keywords: Linear complexity, multisequence, Battery Discharge Model,
isometry.
  A construction of bases for cell modules of the Birman--Murakami--Wenzl (or
B--M--W) algebra $B_n(q,r)$ by lifting bases for cell modules of $B_{n-1}(q,r)$
is given. By iterating this procedure, we produce cellular bases for B--M--W
algebras on which a large abelian subalgebra, generated by elements which
generalise the Jucys--Murphy elements from the representation theory of the
Iwahori--Hecke algebra of the symmetric group, acts triangularly. The
triangular action of this abelian subalgebra is used to provide explicit
criteria, in terms of the defining parameters $q$ and $r$, for B--M--W algebras
to be semisimple. The aforementioned constructions provide generalisations, to
the algebras under consideration here, of certain results from the Specht
module theory of the Iwahori--Hecke algebra of the symmetric group.
  Picone-type identities are established for half-linear ODEs of fourth order
(one-dimensional p-biLaplacian). It is shown that in the linear case they
reduce to the known identities for fourth order linear ODEs. Picone-type
identity known for two half-linear second-order equations is also generalised
to set of equations greater than two.
  In this paper a simple method of construction of scaling function $\phi (x)$
and orthogonal wavelets with the compact support for any natural coefficient of
scaling $N\ge 2$ is given. Examples of construction of wavelets for
coefficients of scaling N=2 and N=3 are produced.
  In this paper, a random graph process ${G(t)}_{t\geq 1}$ is studied and its
degree sequence is analyzed. Let $(W_t)_{t\geq 1}$ be an i.i.d. sequence. The
graph process is defined so that, at each integer time $t$, a new vertex, with
$W_t$ edges attached to it, is added to the graph. The new edges added at time
t are then preferentially connected to older vertices, i.e., conditionally on
$G(t-1)$, the probability that a given edge is connected to vertex i is
proportional to $d_i(t-1)+\delta$, where $d_i(t-1)$ is the degree of vertex $i$
at time $t-1$, independently of the other edges. The main result is that the
asymptotical degree sequence for this process is a power law with exponent
$\tau=\min\{\tau_{W}, \tau_{P}\}$, where $\tau_{W}$ is the power-law exponent
of the initial degrees $(W_t)_{t\geq 1}$ and $\tau_{P}$ the exponent predicted
by pure preferential attachment. This result extends previous work by Cooper
and Frieze, which is surveyed.
  In this paper, we investigate the diameter in preferential attachment (PA-)
models, thus quantifying the statement that these models are small worlds. The
models studied here are such that edges are attached to older vertices
proportional to the degree plus a constant, i.e., we consider affine PA-models.
There is a substantial amount of literature proving that, quite generally,
PA-graphs possess power-law degree sequences with a power-law exponent \tau>2.
  We prove that the diameter of the PA-model is bounded above by a constant
times \log{t}, where t is the size of the graph. When the power-law exponent
\tau exceeds 3, then we prove that \log{t} is the right order, by proving a
lower bound of this order, both for the diameter as well as for the typical
distance. This shows that, for \tau>3, distances are of the order \log{t}. For
\tau\in (2,3), we improve the upper bound to a constant times \log\log{t}, and
prove a lower bound of the same order for the diameter. Unfortunately, this
proof does not extend to typical distances. These results do show that the
diameter is of order \log\log{t}.
  These bounds partially prove predictions by physicists that the typical
distance in PA-graphs are similar to the ones in other scale-free random
graphs, such as the configuration model and various inhomogeneous random graph
models, where typical distances have been shown to be of order \log\log{t} when
\tau\in (2,3), and of order \log{t} when \tau>3.
  Surgery obstruction of a normal map to a simple Poincare pair $(X,Y)$ lies in
the relative surgery obstruction group $L_*(\pi_1(Y)\to\pi_1(X))$. A well known
result of Wall, the so called $\pi$-$\pi$ theorem, states that in higher
dimensions a normal map of a manifold with boundary to a simple Poincare pair
with $\pi_1(X)\cong\pi_1(Y)$ is normally bordant to a simple homotopy
equivalence of pairs. In order to study normal maps to a manifold with a
submanifold, Wall introduced surgery obstruction group for manifold pairs
$LP_*$ and splitting obstruction groups $LS_*$. In the present paper we
formulate and prove for manifold pairs with boundaries the results which are
similar to the $\pi$-$\pi$ theorem. We give direct geometric proofs, which are
based on the original statements of Wall's results and apply obtained results
to investigate surgery on filtered manifolds.
  We consider a regular indefinite Sturm-Liouville problem with two
self-adjoint boundary conditions affinely dependent on the eigenparameter. We
give sufficient conditions under which the root vectors of this Sturm-Liouville
problem can be selected to form a Riesz basis of a corresponding weighted
Hilbert space.
  It has been known for a long time that the fundamental group of the quotient
of $\RR ^3$ by the Case-Chamberlin continuum is nontrivial. In the present
paper we prove that this group is in fact, uncountable.
  We consider a regular indefinite Sturm-Liouville problem with two
self-adjoint boundary conditions, one being affinely dependent on the
eigenparameter. We give sufficient conditions under which a basis of each root
subspace for this Sturm-Liouville problem can be selected so that the union of
all these bases constitutes a Riesz basis of a corresponding weighted Hilbert
space.
  We present a short proof of the following Pontryagin theorem, whose original
proof was complicated and has never been published in details: {\bf Theorem.}
Let $M$ be a connected oriented closed smooth 3-manifold. Let $L_1(M)$ be the
set of framed links in $M$ up to a framed cobordism. Let $\deg:L_1(M)\to
H_1(M;\Z)$ be the map taking a framed link to its homology class. Then for each
$\alpha\in H_1(M;\Z)$ there is a 1-1 correspondence between the set
$\deg\nolimits^{-1}\alpha$ and the group $\Bbb Z_{2d(\alpha)}$, where
$d(\alpha)$ is the divisibility of the projection of $\alpha$ to the free part
of $H_1(M;\Bbb Z)$.
  We discuss the consistency of the axioms which the definition of quantum Lie
algebras is usually based on.
  In this paper, the author discusses the elliptic type gradient estimate for
the solution of the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equations on noncompact
manifolds. As its application, the dimension-free Harnack inequality and the
Liouville type theorem for the Schr\"{o}dinger equation are proved.
  We realize quantized anti de Sitter space black holes, building Connes
spectral triples, similar to those used for quantized spheres but based on
Universal Deformation Quantization Formulas (UDF) obtained from an oscillatory
integral kernel on an appropriate symplectic symmetric space. More precisely we
first obtain a UDF for Lie subgroups acting on a symplectic symmetric space M
in a locally simply transitive manner. Then, observing that a curvature
contraction canonically relates anti de Sitter geometry to the geometry of
symplectic symmetric spaces, we use that UDF to define what we call
Dirac-isospectral noncommutative deformations of the spectral triples of
locally anti de Sitter black holes. The study is motivated by physical and
cosmological considerations.
  We consider singularly perturbed second order elliptic system in the whole
space with fast oscillating coefficients. We construct the complete asymptotic
expansions for the eigenvalues converging to the isolated ones of the
homogenized system, as well as the complete asymptotic expansions for the
associated eigenfunctions.
  Four families of special functions, depending on n variables, are studied. We
call them symmetric and antisymmetric multivariate sine and cosine functions.
They are given as determinants or antideterminants of matrices, whose matrix
elements are sine or cosine functions of one variable each. These functions are
eigenfunctions of the Laplace operator, satisfying specific conditions at the
boundary of a certain domain F of the n-dimensional Euclidean space. Discrete
and continuous orthogonality on F of the functions within each family, allows
one to introduce symmetrized and antisymmetrized multivariate Fourier-like
transforms, involving the symmetric and antisymmetric multivariate sine and
cosine functions.
  In this paper, we prove that for every Finsler $n$-sphere $(S^n, F)$ for
$n\ge 3$ with reversibility $\lambda$ and flag curvature $K$ satisfying
$(\frac{\lambda}{\lambda+1})^2<K\le 1$, either there exist infinitely many
prime closed geodesics or there exists one elliptic closed geodesic whose
linearized Poincar\'e map has at least one eigenvalue which is of the form
$\exp(\pi i \mu)$ with an irrational $\mu$. Furthermore, there always exist
three prime closed geodesics on any $(S^3, F)$ satisfying the above pinching
condition.
  Let $M$ be a 1-connected closed manifold and $LM$ be the space of free loops
on $M$. In \cite{C-S} M. Chas and D. Sullivan defined a structure of BV-algebra
on the singular homology of $LM$, $H_\ast(LM; \bk)$. When the field of
coefficients is of characteristic zero, we prove that there exists a BV-algebra
structure on $\hH^\ast(C^\ast (M); C^\ast (M))$ which carries the canonical
structure of Gerstenhaber algebra. We construct then an isomorphism of
BV-algebras between $\hH^\ast (C^\ast (M); C^\ast (M)) $ and the shifted $
H_{\ast+m} (LM; {\bk})$. We also prove that the Chas-Sullivan product and the
BV-operator behave well with the Hodge decomposition of $H_\ast (LM) $.
  We introduce a spectrum for arbitrary varieties. This generalizes the
definition by Steenbrink for hypersurfaces. In the isolated complete
intersection singularity case, it coincides with the one given by Ebeling and
Steenbrink except for the coefficients of integral exponents. We show a
relation to the graded pieces of the multiplier ideals by using a relation to
the filtration $V$ of Kashiwara and Malgrange. This implies a partial
generalization of a theorem of Budur in the hypersurface case. The point is to
consider the direct sum of the graded pieces of the multiplier ideals as a
module over the algebra defining the normal cone of the subvariety. We also
give a combinatorial description in the case of monomial ideals.
  More than a century ago, G. Kowalewski stated that for each n continuous
functions on a compact interval [a,b], there exists an n-point quadrature rule
(with respect to Lebesgue measure on [a,b]), which is exact for given
functions. Here we generalize this result to continuous functions with an
arbitrary positive and finite measure on an arbitrary interval. The proof
relies on a version of Caratheodory's convex hull theorem for a continuous
curve, that we also prove in the paper. As applications, we give a
representation of the covariance for two continuous functions of a random
variable, and a most general version of Gruess' inequality.
  We prove that pure braid groups of closed surface are almost-direct products
of residually torsion free nilpotent groups and hence residually torsion free
nilpotent. As a Corollary, we prove also that braid groups on 2 strands of
closed surfaces are residually nilpotent.
  Let $\mu$ be a Gibbs measure of the doubling map $T$ of the circle. For a
$\mu$-generic point $x$ and a given sequence $\{r_n\} \subset \R^+$, consider
the intervals $(T^nx - r_n \pmod 1, T^nx + r_n \pmod 1)$. In analogy to the
classical Dvoretzky covering of the circle we study the covering properties of
this sequence of intervals. This study is closely related to the local entropy
function of the Gibbs measure and to hitting times for moving targets. A mass
transference principle is obtained for Gibbs measures which are multifractal.
Such a principle was shown by Beresnevich and Velani \cite{BV} only for
monofractal measures. In the symbolic language we completely describe the
combinatorial structure of a typical relatively short sequence, in particular
we can describe the occurrence of ''atypical'' relatively long words. Our
results have a direct and deep number-theoretical interpretation via
inhomogeneous diadic diophantine approximation by numbers belonging to a given
(diadic) diophantine class.
  This paper studies the Ratliff-Rush closure of ideals in integral domains. By
definition, the Ratliff-Rush closure of an ideal $I$ of a domain $R$ is the
ideal given by $\tilde{I}:=\bigcup(I^{n+1}:_{R}I^{n})$ and an ideal $I$ is said
to be a Ratliff-Rush ideal if $\tilde{I}=I$. We completely characterize
integrally closed domains in which every ideal is a Ratliff-Rush ideal and we
give a complete description of the Ratliff-Rush closure of an ideal in a
valuation domain.
  Let k be an algebraically closed field of characteristic >2, F=k((t)) and
Mp(F) denote the metaplectic extension of Sp_{2d}(F). In this paper we propose
a geometric analog of the Weil representation of Mp(F). This is a category of
certain perverse sheaves on some stack, on which Mp(F) acts by functors. This
construction will be used in math.RT/0701170 (and subsequent publications) for
a proof of the geometric Langlands functoriality for some dual reductive pairs.
  Consider in $L^2(R^d)$, $d\geq 1$, the operator family $H(g):=H_0+igW$. $\ds
H_0= a^\ast_1a_1+... +a^\ast_da_d+d/2$ is the quantum harmonic oscillator with
rational frequencies, $W$ a $P$ symmetric bounded potential, and $g$ a real
coupling constant. We show that if $|g|<\rho$, $\rho$ being an explicitly
determined constant, the spectrum of $H(g)$ is real and discrete. Moreover we
show that the operator $\ds H(g)=a^\ast_1 a_1+a^\ast_2a_2+ig a^\ast_2a_1$ has
real discrete spectrum but is not diagonalizable.
  Given a right-angled Artin group A, the associated Bestvina-Brady group is
defined to be the kernel of the homomorphism A \to \mathbb{Z} that maps each
generator in the standard presentation of A to a fixed generator of \mathbb{Z}.
We prove that the Dehn function of an arbitrary finitely presented
Bestvina-Brady group is bounded above by n^4. This is the best possible
universal upper bound.
  In this article we study a controllability problem for a parabolic and a
hyperbolic partial differential equations in which the control is the shape of
the domain where the equation holds. The quantity to be controlled is the trace
of the solution into an open subdomain and at a given time, when the right hand
side source term is known. The mapping that associates this trace to the shape
of the domain is nonlinear. We show (i) an approximate controllability property
for the linearized parabolic problem and (ii) an exact local controllability
property for the linearized and the nonlinear equations in the hyperbolic case.
We then address the same questions in the context of a finite difference
spatial semi-discretization in both the parabolic and hyperbolic problems. In
this discretized case again we prove a local controllability result for the
parabolic problem, and an exact controllability for the hyperbolic case,
applying a local surjectivity theorem together with a unique continuation
property of the underlying adjoint discrete system.
  Independent component analysis (ICA) has been widely used for blind source
separation in many fields such as brain imaging analysis, signal processing and
telecommunication. Many statistical techniques based on M-estimates have been
proposed for estimating the mixing matrix. Recently, several nonparametric
methods have been developed, but in-depth analysis of asymptotic efficiency has
not been available. We analyze ICA using semiparametric theories and propose a
straightforward estimate based on the efficient score function by using
B-spline approximations. The estimate is asymptotically efficient under
moderate conditions and exhibits better performance than standard ICA methods
in a variety of simulations.
  Hypertoric varieties are quaternionic analogues of toric varieties, important
for their interaction with the combinatorics of matroids as well as for their
prominent place in the rapidly expanding field of algebraic symplectic and
hyperkahler geometry. The aim of this survey is to give clear definitions and
statements of known results, serving both as a reference and as a point of
entry to this beautiful subject.
  In this paper, we examine the stability problem for viscous shock solutions
of the isentropic compressible Navier--Stokes equations, or $p$-system with
real viscosity. We first revisit the work of Matsumura and Nishihara, extending
the known parameter regime for which small-amplitude viscous shocks are
provably spectrally stable by an optimized version of their original argument.
Next, using a novel spectral energy estimate, we show that there are no purely
real unstable eigenvalues for any shock strength.
  By related estimates, we show that unstable eigenvalues are confined to a
bounded region independent of shock strength. Then through an extensive
numerical Evans function study, we show that there is no unstable spectrum in
the entire right-half plane, thus demonstrating numerically that
large-amplitude shocks are spectrally stable up to Mach number $M\approx 3000$
for $1 \le \gamma \leq 3$. This strongly suggests that shocks are stable
independent of amplitude and the adiabatic constant $\gamma$. We complete our
study by showing that finite-difference simulations of perturbed
large-amplitude shocks converge to a translate of the original shock wave, as
expected.
  We prove that the KP-I initial value problem is globally well-posed in the
natural energy space of the equation.
  By a combination of asymptotic ODE estimates and numerical Evans function
calculations, we establish stability of viscous shock solutions of the
isentropic compressible Navier--Stokes equations with $\gamma$-law pressure (i)
in the limit as Mach number $M$ goes to infinity, for any $\gamma\ge 1$ (proved
analytically), and (ii) for $M\ge 2,500$, $\gamma\in [1,2.5]$ (demonstrated
numerically). This builds on and completes earlier studies by
Matsumura--Nishihara and Barker--Humpherys--Rudd--Zumbrun establishing
stability for low and intermediate Mach numbers, respectively, indicating
unconditional stability, independent of shock amplitude, of viscous shock waves
for $\gamma$-law gas dynamics in the range $\gamma \in [1,2.5]$. Other
$\gamma$-values may be treated similarly, but have not been checked
numerically. The main idea is to establish convergence of the Evans function in
the high-Mach number limit to that of a pressureless, or ``infinitely
compressible'', gas with additional upstream boundary condition determined by a
boundary-layer analysis. Recall that low-Mach number behavior is
incompressible.
  Self-interacting diffusions are solutions to SDEs with a drift term depending
on the process and its normalized occupation measure $\mu_t$ (via an
interaction potential and a confinement potential). We establish a relation
between the asymptotic behavior of $\mu_t$ and the asymptotic behavior of a
deterministic dynamical flow (defined on the space of the Borel probability
measures). We extend previous results on $\mathbb{R}^d$ or more generally a
smooth complete connected Riemannian manifold without boundary. We will also
give some sufficient conditions for the convergence of $\mu_t$. Finally, we
will illustrate our study with an example on $\mathbb{R}^2$.
  Using the theory developed by Olga Kharlampovich, Alexei Miasnikov, and,
independently, by Zlil Sela to describe the set of homomorphisms of a f.g.
group G into a free group F, we describe the solutions to equations with
coefficients from F and unknowns x,y of the form w(x,y) = u, where u lies in F
and w(x,y) is a word in {x,y}^\{pm 1}. We also give an example of a single
equation whose solutions cannot be described with only one "level" of
automorphisms.
  We establish that the min-sum message-passing algorithm and its asynchronous
variants converge for a large class of unconstrained convex optimization
problems.
  We prove that if $A \subset {\Bbb F}_q$ is such that
$$|A|>q^{{1/2}+\frac{1}{2d}},$$ then $${\Bbb F}_q^{*} \subset dA^2=A^2+...+A^2
d \text{times},$$ where $$A^2=\{a \cdot a': a,a' \in A\},$$ and where ${\Bbb
F}_q^{*}$ denotes the multiplicative group of the finite field ${\Bbb F}_q$. In
particular, we cover ${\Bbb F}_q^{*}$ by $A^2+A^2$ if $|A|>q^{{3/4}}$.
Furthermore, we prove that if $$|A| \ge
C_{size}^{\frac{1}{d}}q^{{1/2}+\frac{1}{2(2d-1)}},$$ then $$|dA^2| \ge q \cdot
\frac{C^2_{size}}{C^2_{size}+1}.$$
  Thus $dA^2$ contains a positive proportion of the elements of ${\Bbb F}_q$
under a considerably weaker size assumption.We use the geometry of ${\Bbb
F}_q^d$, averages over hyper-planes and orthogonality properties of character
sums. In particular, we see that using operators that are smoothing on $L^2$ in
the Euclidean setting leads to non-trivial arithmetic consequences in the
context of finite fields.
  We consider higher-dimensional analogues of the classical Brauer-Siegel
theorem focusing on the case of abelian varieties over global function fields.
We prove such an analogue in the case of constant families of elliptic curves
and abelian varieties.
  A partially ordered set P is representable if there is a bounded distributive
lattice such that its ordered set of prime ideals is order-isomorphic to P. We
show that if the order components of a poset P are representable, then so is P.
Moreover, we provide an example disproving the converse.
  We study properties of a sequence $\Lambda$ obtained by a randomselection of
integers $n$, where $n\in\Lambda$ with probability $\varpi_{n}$, independently
of the other choices. We distinguish two cases : if
$\limsup_{n\to\infty}n\varpi_{n}<\infty$, $\Lambda$ is a.s. a Sidon set,
non-dense in the Bohr group ; if $\lim_{n\to\infty}n\varpi_{n}=\infty$, then
$\Lambda$ is a.s. a set of analyticity and is dense in the Bohr group.
  We present a small 4-dimensional polyhedral realization of a 2-dimensional
Z-acyclic but non-contractible simplicial complex.
  We review the properties of quantum groups occurring as Kazhdan--Lusztig dual
to logarithmic conformal field theory models. These quantum groups at even
roots of unity are not quasitriangular but are factorizable and have a ribbon
structure; the modular group representation on their center coincides with the
representation on generalized characters of the chiral algebra in logarithmic
conformal field models.
  This paper has been withdrawn, as it is superseded by arXiv:0806.2122
(Bloch-Kato exponential maps for local fields with imperfect residue fields),
which is a more recent version of the same paper.
  We prove the Tate duality for higher dimensional local fields of mixed
characteristic (0,p), when p is an odd prime, using the theory of higher fields
of norms. Assuming that p is not ramified in the basefield, we then use this
construction to define the higher Hilbert pairing. In particular, we show that
the Hilbert pairing is non-degenerate, and we re-discover the formulae of
Brueckner and Vostokov.
  Let $(P,\leq)$ be a partially ordered set and let $\tau$ be a compact
topology on $P$ that is finer than the interval topology. Then $\tau$ is
contained in the order (convergence) topology on $(P,\tau)$. So any Priestley
topology is contained in the order topology.
  We study two classes of dynamical systems with holes: expanding maps of the
interval and Collet-Eckmann maps with singularities. In both cases, we prove
that there is a natural absolutely continuous conditionally invariant measure
$\mu$ (a.c.c.i.m.) with the physical property that strictly positive H\"{o}lder
continuous functions converge to the density of $\mu$ under the renormalized
dynamics of the system. In addition, we construct an invariant measure $\nu$,
supported on the Cantor set of points that never escape from the system, that
is ergodic and enjoys exponential decay of correlations for H\"{o}lder
observables. We show that $\nu$ satisfies an equilibrium principle which
implies that the escape rate formula, familiar to the thermodynamic formalism,
holds outside the usual setting. In particular, it holds for Collet-Eckmann
maps with holes, which are not uniformly hyperbolic and do not admit a finite
Markov partition.
  We use a general framework of Young towers with holes and first prove results
about the \accim and the invariant measure on the tower. Then we show how to
transfer results to the original dynamical system. This approach can be
expected to generalize to other dynamical systems than the two above classes.
  We analyze an optimal control problem for systems of integral equations of
Volterra type with two independent variables. These systems generalize both,
the hyperbolic control problems for systems of Goursat-Darboux type, and the
optimal control of ordinary (i.e. with one independent variable) Volterra
integral equations. We prove extremal principles akin to Pontryagin's maximum
principle.
  In this note we study two related questions. (1) For a compact group G, what
are the ranges of the convolution maps on A(GXG) given for u,v in A(G) by $u X
v |-> u*v' ($v'(s)=v(s^{-1})$) and $u X v |-> u*v$? (2) For a locally compact
group G and a compact subgroup K, what are the amenability properties of the
Fourier algebra of the coset space A(G/K)? The algebra A(G/K) was defined and
studied by the first named author.
  In answering the first question, we obtain for compact groups which do not
admit an abelian subgroup of finite index, some new subalgebras of A(G). Using
those algebras we can find many instances in which A(G/K) fails the most
rudimentary amenability property: operator weak amenability. However, using
different techniques, we show that if the connected component of the identity
of G is abelian, then A(G/K) always satisfies the stronger property that it is
hyper-Tauberian, which is a concept developed by the second named author. We
also establish a criterion which characterises operator amenability of A(G/K)
for a class of groups which includes the maximally almost periodic groups.
  For any finite unital commutative idempotent semigroup S, a unital
semilattice, we show how to compute the amenability constant of its semigroup
algebra l^1(S), which is always of the form 4n+1. We then show that these give
lower bounds to amenability constants of certain Banach algebras graded over
semilattices. We show that there is no commutative semilattice with amenability
constant between 5 and 9.
  In this paper we consider the approximation of functions by radial basis
function interpolants. There is a plethora of results about the asymptotic
behaviour of the error between appropriately smooth functions and their
interpolants, as the interpolation points fill out a bounded domain in R^d. In
all of these cases, the analysis takes place in a natural function space
dictated by the choice of radial basis function - the native space. In many
cases, the native space contains functions possessing a certain amount of
smoothness. We address the question of what can be said about these error
estimates when the function being interpolated fails to have the required
smoothness. These are the rough functions of the title. We limit our discussion
to surface splines, as an exemplar of a wider class of radial basis functions,
because we feel our techniques are most easily seen and understood in this
setting.
  We characterise the Priestley spaces corresponding to affine complete bounded
distributive lattices. Moreover we prove that the class of affine complete
bounded distributive lattices is closed under products and free products. We
show that every (not necessarily bounded) distributive lattice can be embedded
in an affine complete one and that $\mathbb{Q} \cap [0,1]$ is initial in the
class of affine complete lattices.
  Extending some results of Malykhin, we prove several independence results
about base properties of $\beta\omega-\omega$ and its powers, especially the
Noetherian type $Nt(\beta\omega-\omega)$, the least $\kappa$ for which
$\beta\omega-\omega$ has a base that is $\kappa$-like with respect to
containment. For example, $Nt(\beta\omega-\omega)$ is never less than the
splitting number, but can consistently be that $\omega_1$, $2^\omega$,
$(2^\omega)^+$, or strictly between $\omega_1$ and $2^\omega$.
$Nt(\beta\omega-\omega)$ is also consistently less than the additivity of the
meager ideal. $Nt(\beta\omega-\omega)$ is closely related to the existence of
special kinds of splitting families.
  A commutative semigroup of abstract factorials is defined in the context of
the ring of integers. We study such factorials for their own sake, whether they
are or are not connected to sets of integers. Given a subset X of the positive
integers we construct a "factorial set" with which one may define a multitude
of abstract factorials on X. We study the possible equality of consecutive
factorials, a dichotomy involving the limit superior of the ratios of
consecutive factorials and we provide many examples outlining the applications
of the ensuing theory; examples dealing with prime numbers, Fibonacci numbers,
and highly composite numbers among other sets of integers. One of our results
states that given any abstract factorial the series of reciprocals of its
factorials always converges to an irrational number. Thus, for example, for any
positive integer k the series of the reciprocals of the k-th powers of the
cumulative product of the divisors of the numbers from 1 to n is irrational.
  The error between appropriately smooth functions and their radial basis
function interpolants, as the interpolation points fill out a bounded domain in
R^d, is a well studied artifact. In all of these cases, the analysis takes
place in a natural function space dictated by the choice of radial basis
function -- the native space. The native space contains functions possessing a
certain amount of smoothness. This paper establishes error estimates when the
function being interpolated is conspicuously rough.
  In this paper we present a rare combination of abstract results on the
spectral properties of slanted matrices and some of their very specific
applications to frame theory and sampling problems. We show that for a large
class of slanted matrices boundedness below of the corresponding operator in
$\ell^p$ for some $p$ implies boundedness below in $\ell^p$ for all $p$. We use
the established resultto enrich our understanding of Banach frames and obtain
new results for irregular sampling problems. We also present a version of a
non-commutative Wiener's lemma for slanted matrices.
  We provide a proof of a variant of the Landau-Siegel Zeros conjecture.
  A useful sampling-reconstruction model should be stable with respect to
different kind of small perturbations, regardless whether they result from
jitter, measurement errors, or simply from a small change in the model
assumptions. In this paper we prove this result for a large class of sampling
models. We define different classes of perturbations and quantify the
robustness of a model with respect to them. We also use the theory of localized
frames to study the frame algorithm for recovering the original signal from its
samples.
  It is well known that complete prior ignorance is not compatible with
learning, at least in a coherent theory of (epistemic) uncertainty. What is
less widely known, is that there is a state similar to full ignorance, that
Walley calls near-ignorance, that permits learning to take place. In this paper
we provide new and substantial evidence that also near-ignorance cannot be
really regarded as a way out of the problem of starting statistical inference
in conditions of very weak beliefs. The key to this result is focusing on a
setting characterized by a variable of interest that is latent. We argue that
such a setting is by far the most common case in practice, and we show, for the
case of categorical latent variables (and general manifest variables) that
there is a sufficient condition that, if satisfied, prevents learning to take
place under prior near-ignorance. This condition is shown to be easily
satisfied in the most common statistical problems.
  We show that elliptic curves whose Mordell-Weil groups are finitely generated
over some infinite extensions of $\Q$, can be used to show the Diophantine
undecidability of the rings of integers and bigger rings contained in some
infinite extensions of rational numbers.
  This paper is the second in a series whose goal is to understand the
structure of low-volume complete orientable hyperbolic 3-manifolds. Using Mom
technology, we prove that any one-cusped hyperbolic 3-manifold with volume <=
2.848 can be obtained by a Dehn filling on one of 21 cusped hyperbolic
3-manifolds. We also show how this result can be used to construct a complete
list of all one-cusped hyperbolic three-manifolds with volume <= 2.848 and all
closed hyperbolic three-manifolds with volume <= 0.943. In particular, the
Weeks manifold is the unique smallest volume closed orientable hyperbolic
3-manifold.
  We prove that for every $\Q$-homological Finsler 3-sphere $(M,F)$ with a
bumpy and irreversible metric $F$, either there exist two non-hyperbolic prime
closed geodesics, or there exist at least three prime closed geodesics.
  In this paper we prove that for every bumpy Finsler metric $F$ on every
rationally homological $n$-dimensional sphere $S^n$ with $n\ge 2$, there exist
always at least two distinct prime closed geodesics.
  If Gamma is a nonuniform, irreducible lattice in a semisimple Lie group whose
real rank is greater than 1, we show Gamma contains a subgroup that is
isomorphic to a nonuniform, irreducible lattice in either SL(3,R), SL(3,C), or
a direct product SL(2,R)^m x SL(2,C)^n$, with m + n > 1. (In geometric terms,
this can be interpreted as a statement about the existence of totally geodesic
subspaces of finite-volume, noncompact, locally symmetric spaces of higher
rank.) Another formulation of the result states that if G is any isotropic,
almost simple algebraic group over Q (the rational numbers), such that the real
rank of G is greater than 1, then G contains an isotropic, almost simple
Q-subgroup H, such that H is quasisplit, and the real rank of H is greater than
1.
  Let $A$ be a C$^*$-algebra, and let $X$ be a Banach $A$-bimodule. B. E.
Johnson showed that local derivations from $A$ into $X$ are derivations. We
extend this concept of locality to the higher cohomology of a $C^*$-algebra
%for $n$-cocycles from $A^{(n)}$ into $X$ and show that, for every $n\in \N$,
bounded local $n$-cocycles from $A^{(n)}$ into $X$ are $n$-cocycles.
  Coherence theorems for covariant structures carried by a category have
traditionally relied on the underlying term rewriting system of the structure
being terminating and confluent. While this holds in a variety of cases, it is
not a feature that is inherent to the coherence problem itself. This is
demonstrated by the theory of iterated monoidal categories, which model
iterated loop spaces and have a coherence theorem but fail to be confluent. We
develop a framework for expressing coherence problems in terms of term
rewriting systems equipped with a two dimensional congruence. Within this
framework we provide general solutions to two related coherence theorems:
Determining whether there is a decision procedure for the commutativity of
diagrams in the resulting structure and determining sufficient conditions
ensuring that ``all diagrams commute''. The resulting coherence theorems rely
on neither the termination nor the confluence of the underlying rewriting
system. We apply the theory to iterated monoidal categories and obtain a new,
conceptual proof of their coherence theorem.
  In light of $\phi$-mapping topological current theory, the inner topological
structure of Hopf invariant is investigated. It is revealed that Hopf invariant
is just the winding number of Gauss mapping. According to the inner structure
of topological current, a precise expression for Hopf invariant is also
presented. It is the total sum of all the self-linking and all the linking
numbers of the knot family.
  The C*-algebra qC is the smallest of the C*-algebras qA introduced by Cuntz
in the context of KK-theory. An important property of qC is the natural
isomorphism of K0 of D with classes of homomorphism from qC to matrix algebras
over D. Our main result concerns the exponential (boundary) map from K0 of a
quotient B to K1 of an ideal I. We show if a K0 element is realized as a
homomorphism from qC to B then its boundary is realized as a unitary in the
unitization of I. The picture we obtain of the exponential map is based on a
projective C*-algebra P that is universal for a set of relations slightly
weaker than the relations that define qC. A new, shorter proof of the
semiprojectivity of qC is described. Smoothing questions related the relations
for qC are addressed.
  We introduce a new numerical invariant of knots and links made from the
partitioned diagrams. It measures the complexity of knots and links.
  For finite dimensional CMV matrices the classical inverse spectral problems
are considered. We solve the inverse problem of reconstructing a CMV matrix by
its Weyl's function, the problem of reconstructing the matrix by two spectra of
CMV matrices with different "boundary conditions", and the problem of
reconstructing the CMV matrix by its spectrum and the spectrum of the CMV
matrix obtained from it by truncation.
  We consider the Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov system of linear differential
equations. The coefficients of this system are rational functions generated by
elements of the symmetric group $S_{n}$. We assume that parameter
$\rho=\pm{1}$. In previous paper we proved that the fundamental solution of the
corresponding KZ-equation is rational. Now we construct this solution in the
explicit form.
  The objective of this work is twofold: First, we analyze the relation between
the k-cosymplectic and the k-symplectic Hamiltonian and Lagrangian formalisms
in classical field theories. In particular, we prove the equivalence between
k-symplectic field theories and the so-called autonomous k-cosymplectic field
theories, extending in this way the description of the symplectic formalism of
autonomous systems as a particular case of the cosymplectic formalism in
non-autonomous mechanics. Furthermore, we clarify some aspects of the geometric
character of the solutions to the Hamilton-de Donder-Weyl and the
Euler-Lagrange equations in these formalisms. Second, we study the equivalence
between k-cosymplectic and a particular kind of multisymplectic Hamiltonian and
Lagrangian field theories (those where the configuration bundle of the theory
is trivial).
  We adapt Schaback's error doubling trick [R. Schaback. Improved error bounds
for scattered data interpolation by radial basis functions. Math. Comp.,
68(225):201--216, 1999.] to give error estimates for radial interpolation of
functions with smoothness lying (in some sense) between that of the usual
native space and the subspace with double the smoothness. We do this for both
bounded subsets of R^d and spheres. As a step on the way to our ultimate goal
we also show convergence of pseudoderivatives of the interpolation error.
  In this paper we consider two sources of enhancement for the meshfree
Lagrangian particle method smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH) by improving
the accuracy of the particle approximation. Namely, we will consider shape
functions constructed using: moving least-squares approximation (MLS); radial
basis functions (RBF). Using MLS approximation is appealing because polynomial
consistency of the particle approximation can be enforced. RBFs further appeal
as they allow one to dispense with the smoothing-length -- the parameter in the
SPH method which governs the number of particles within the support of the
shape function. Currently, only ad hoc methods for choosing the
smoothing-length exist. We ensure that any enhancement retains the conservative
and meshfree nature of SPH. In doing so, we derive a new set of
variationally-consistent hydrodynamic equations. Finally, we demonstrate the
performance of the new equations on the Sod shock tube problem.
  We describe classes of toric varieties of codimension 2 which are either
minimally defined by 3 binomial equations over any algebraically closed field,
or are set-theoretic complete intersections in exactly one positive
characteristic.
  In the context of Synthetic Differential Geometry, we describe a notion of
higher connection with values in a cubical groupoid. We do this by exploiting a
certain structure of cubical complex derived from the first neighbourhood of
the diagonal of a manifold. This cubical complex consists of infinitesimal
parallelelpipeda.
  We show that a given rational Shimura curve Y with strictly maximal Higgs
field in the moduli space of g-dimensional abelian varieties does not
generically intersect the Schottky locus for large g.
  We achieve this by using a result of Viehweg and Zuo which says that if Y
parameterizes a family of curves of genus g, then the corresponding family of
Jacobians is isogenous over Y to the g-fold product of a modular family of
elliptic curves. After reducing the situation from the field of complex numbers
to a finite field, we will see, combining the Weil and Sato-Tate conjectures,
that this is impossible for large genus g.
  We investigate the exact relation existing between the stability equation for
the solutions of a mechanical system and the geodesic deviation equation of the
associated geodesic problem in the Jacobi metric constructed via the
Maupertuis-Jacobi Principle. We conclude that the dynamical and geometrical
approaches to the stability/instability problem are not equivalent.
  Maximal lattice free bodies are maximal polytopes without interior integral
points. Scarf initiated the study of maximal lattice free bodies relative to
the facet normals in a fixed matrix. In this paper we give an efficient
algorithm for computing the maximal lattice free bodies of an integral matrix
A. An important ingredient is a test set for a certain integer program
associated with A. This test set may be computed using algebraic methods. As an
application we generalize the Scarf-Shallcross algorithm for the
three-dimensional Frobenius problem to arbitrary dimension. In this context our
method is inspired by the novel algorithm by Einstein, Lichtblau, Strzebonski
and Wagon and the Groebner basis approach by Roune.
  We consider the moduli space of the extremal K\"ahler metrics on compact
manifolds. We show that under the conditions of two-sided total volume bounds,
$L^{n\over2}$-norm bounds on $\Riem$, and Sobolev constant bounds, this Moduli
space can be compactified by including (reduced) orbifolds with finitely many
singularities. Most of our results go through for certain other classes of
critical Riemannian metrics.
  We prove that for a 7-dimensional manifold M with cylindrical ends the moduli
space of exponentially asymptotically cylindrical torsion-free G_2 structures
is a smooth manifold (if non-empty), and study some of its local properties. We
also show that the holonomy of the induced metric of an exponentially
asymptotically cylindrical G_2 manifold M is exactly G_2 if and only if its
fundamental group is finite and neither M nor any double cover of M is
homeomorphic to a cylinder.
  The Alexander-Hirschowitz theorem says that a general collection of $k$
double points in ${\bf P}^n$ imposes independent conditions on homogeneous
polynomials of degree $d$ with a well known list of exceptions. We generalize
this theorem to arbitrary zero-dimensional schemes contained in a general union
of double points. We work in the polynomial interpolation setting. In this
framework our main result says that the affine space of polynomials of degree
$\le d$ in $n$ variables, with assigned values of any number of general linear
combinations of first partial derivatives, has the expected dimension if $d\neq
2$ with only five exceptional cases. If $d=2$ the exceptional cases are fully
described.
  Network tomography has been regarded as one of the most promising
methodologies for performance evaluation and diagnosis of the massive and
decentralized Internet. This paper proposes a new estimation approach for
solving a class of inverse problems in network tomography, based on marginal
distributions of a sequence of one-dimensional linear projections of the
observed data. We give a general identifiability result for the proposed method
and study the design issue of these one dimensional projections in terms of
statistical efficiency. We show that for a simple Gaussian tomography model,
there is an optimal set of one-dimensional projections such that the estimator
obtained from these projections is asymptotically as efficient as the maximum
likelihood estimator based on the joint distribution of the observed data. For
practical applications, we carry out simulation studies of the proposed method
for two instances of network tomography. The first is for traffic demand
tomography using a Gaussian Origin-Destination traffic model with a power
relation between its mean and variance, and the second is for network delay
tomography where the link delays are to be estimated from the end-to-end path
delays. We compare estimators obtained from our method and that obtained from
using the joint distribution and other lower dimensional projections, and show
that in both cases, the proposed method yields satisfactory results.
  Linearly projecting smooth projective varieties provides a method of
obtaining hypersurfaces birational to the original varieties. We show that in
low dimension, the resulting hypersurfaces only have Du Bois singularities.
Moreover, we conclude that these Du Bois singularities are in fact semi log
canonical. However, we demonstrate the existence of counterexamples in high
dimension -- the generic linear projection of certain varieties of dimension 30
or higher is neither semi log canonical nor Du Bois.
  The paper that was here is a preprint that was never turned into a proper
paper. In particular it does not have enough citations to the literature. The
paper "The Slice Algorithm For Irreducible Decomposition of Monomial Ideals"
contains a much better description of the Label algorithm than this preprint
did. If you still wish to read the original preprint then access the arXiv's
version 1 of this paper, instead of version 2 which is what you are reading
now.
  Observations consisting of measurements on relationships for pairs of objects
arise in many settings, such as protein interaction and gene regulatory
networks, collections of author-recipient email, and social networks. Analyzing
such data with probabilisic models can be delicate because the simple
exchangeability assumptions underlying many boilerplate models no longer hold.
In this paper, we describe a latent variable model of such data called the
mixed membership stochastic blockmodel. This model extends blockmodels for
relational data to ones which capture mixed membership latent relational
structure, thus providing an object-specific low-dimensional representation. We
develop a general variational inference algorithm for fast approximate
posterior inference. We explore applications to social and protein interaction
networks.
  We introduce a linear space of finitely additive measures to treat the
problem of optimal expected utility from consumption under a stochastic clock
and an unbounded random endowment process. In this way we establish existence
and uniqueness for a large class of utility maximization problems including the
classical ones of terminal wealth or consumption, as well as the problems
depending on a random time-horizon or multiple consumption instances. As an
example we treat explicitly the problem of maximizing the logarithmic utility
of a consumption stream, where the local time of an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process
acts as a stochastic clock.
  Benford's law states that for many random variables X > 0 its leading digit D
= D(X) satisfies approximately the equation P(D = d) = log_{10}(1 + 1/d) for d
= 1,2,...,9. This phenomenon follows from another, maybe more intuitive fact,
applied to Y := log_{10}(X): For many real random variables Y, the remainder U
:= Y - floor(Y) is approximately uniformly distributed on [0,1). The present
paper provides new explicit bounds for the latter approximation in terms of the
total variation of the density of Y or some derivative of it. These bounds are
an interesting alternative to traditional Fourier methods which yield mostly
qualitative results. As a by-product we obtain explicit bounds for the
approximation error in Benford's law.
  An analysis is given of $*$-representations of rank 2 single vertex graphs.
We develop dilation theory for the non-selfadjoint algebras $\A_\theta$ and
$\A_u$ which are associated with the commutation relation permutation $\theta$
of a 2 graph and, more generally, with commutation relations determined by a
unitary matrix $u$ in $M_m(\bC) \otimes M_n(\bC)$. We show that a defect free
row contractive representation has a unique minimal dilation to a
$*$-representation and we provide a new simpler proof of Solel's row isometric
dilation of two $u$-commuting row contractions. Furthermore it is shown that
the C*-envelope of $\A_u$ is the generalised Cuntz algebra $\O_{X_u}$ for the
product system $X_u$ of $u$; that for $m\geq 2 $ and $n \geq 2 $ contractive
representations of $\Ath$ need not be completely contractive; and that the
universal tensor algebra $\T_+(X_u)$ need not be isometrically isomorphic to
$\A_u$.
  We provide a detailed analysis of atomic *-representations of rank 2 graphs
on a single vertex. They are completely classified up to unitary equivalence,
and decomposed into a direct sum or direct integral of irreducible atomic
representations. The building blocks are described as the minimal *-dilations
of defect free representations modelled on finite groups of rank 2.
  Kumjian and Pask introduced an aperiodicity condition for higher rank graphs.
We present a detailed analysis of when this occurs in certain rank 2 graphs.
When the algebra is aperiodic, we give another proof of the simplicity of
$\ca(\Fth)$. The periodic C*-algebras are characterized, and it is shown that
$\ca(\Fth) \simeq \rC(\bT) \otimes \fA$ where $\fA$ is a simple C*-algebra.
  We study the adiabatic limit of the eta invariant of the Dirac operator over
cofinite quotient of PSL(2,R), which is a noncompact manifold with a nonexact
fibred-cusp metric near the ends.
  Suppose that T_t is a symmetric diffusion semigroup on L^2(X) and consider
its tensor product extension to the Bochner space L^p(X,B), where B belongs to
a certain broad class of UMD spaces. We prove a vector-valued version of the
Hopf--Dunford--Schwartz ergodic theorem and show that this extends to a maximal
theorem for analytic continuations of the semigroup's extension to L^p(X,B). As
an application, we show that such continuations exhibit pointwise convergence.
  Let X be a geometrically connected smooth projective curve of genus one,
defined over the field of real numbers, such that X does not have any real
points. We classify the isomorphism classes of all stable real algebraic vector
bundles over X.
  The Behrens-Fisher problem concerns testing the equality of the means of two
normal populations with possibly different variances. The null hypothesis in
this problem induces a statistical model for which the likelihood function may
have more than one local maximum. We show that such multimodality contradicts
the null hypothesis in the sense that if this hypothesis is true then the
probability of multimodality converges to zero when both sample sizes tend to
infinity. Additional results include a finite-sample bound on the probability
of multimodality under the null and asymptotics for the probability of
multimodality under the alternative.
  We consider solutions to the time-harmonic Maxwell problem in $\R^3$. For
such solution we provide a rigorous derivation of the asymptotic expansions in
the practically interesting situation, where a finite number of inhomogeneities
of small diameter are imbedded in the entire space. Then, we describe the
behavior of the electromagnetic energy caused by the presence of these
inhomogeneities.
  Effective Liouville operators of the first- and the second-order symplectic
integrators are obtained for the one-dimensional harmonic-oscillator system.
The operators are defined only when the time step is less than two. Absolute
values of the coordinate and the momentum monotonically increase for large time
steps.
  This dissertation collects together results on Patience Sorting and its
generalizations. It incorporates the results of math.CO/0506358,
math.CO/0507031, and math.CO/0512122, as well as previously unpublished
results.
  Let $(X,\omega)$ be a compact K\"ahler manifold. We introduce and study the
largest set $DMA(X,\omega)$ of $\omega$-plurisubharmonic (psh) functions on
which the complex Monge-Amp\`ere operator is well defined. It is much larger
than the corresponding local domain of definition, though still a proper subset
of the set $PSH(X,\om)$ of all $\om$-psh functions. We prove that certain
twisted Monge-Amp\`ere operators are well defined for all $\omega$-psh
functions. As a consequence, any $\om$-psh function with slightly attenuated
singularities has finite weighted Monge-Amp\`ere energy.
  We give a lower bound for the length of a non-trivial geodesic loop on a
simply-connected and compact manifold of even dimension with a non-reversible
Finsler metric of positive flag curvature. Harris and Paternain use this
estimate in their recent paper [HP] to give a geometric characterization of
dynamically convex Finsler metrics on the 2-sphere.
  This paper addresses the long-time behavior of gradient flows of non convex
functionals in Hilbert spaces. Exploiting the notion of generalized semiflows
by J. M. Ball, we provide some sufficient conditions for the existence of a
global attractor. The abstract results are applied to various classes of non
convex evolution problems. In particular, we discuss the long-time behavior of
solutions of quasi-stationary phase field models and prove the existence of a
global attractor.
  We construct the deformation functor associated with a pair of morphisms of
differential graded Lie algebras, and use it to study infinitesimal
deformations of holomorphic maps of compact complex manifolds. In particular,
using L-infinity structures, we give an explicit description of the
differential graded Lie algebra that controls this problem.
  We study occurrences of patterns on clusters of size n in random fields on
Z^d. We prove that for a given pattern, there is a constant a>0 such that the
probability that this pattern occurs at most an times on a cluster of size n is
exponentially small. Moreover, for random fields obeying a certain Markov
property, we show that the ratio between the numbers of occurrences of two
distinct patterns on a cluster is concentrated around a constant value. This
leads to an elegant and simple proof of the ratio limit theorem for these
random fields, which states that the ratio of the probabilities that the
cluster of the origin has sizes n+1 and n converges as n tends to infinity.
Implications for the maximal cluster in a finite box are discussed.
  We prove formulas for the generating functions for M_2-rank differences for
partitions without repeated odd parts. These formulas are in terms of modular
forms and generalized Lambert series.
  Improving upon earlier results of Freiman and the present authors, we show
that if $p$ is a sufficiently large prime and $A$ is a sum-free subset of the
group of order $p$, such that $n:=|A|>0.318p$, then $A$ is contained in a
dilation of the interval $[n,p-n]\pmod p$.
  In this paper, we first construct a Lie algebra $L$ from rank 3 quantum
torus, and show that it is isomorphic to the core of EALAs of type $A_1$ with
coordinates in rank 2 quantum torus. Then we construct two classes of
irreducible ${\bf Z}$-graded highest weight representations, and give the
necessary and sufficient conditions for these representations to be
quasifinite. Next, we prove that they exhaust all the generalized highest
weight irreducible ${\bf Z}$-graded quasifinite representations. As a
consequence, we determine all the irreducible ${\bf Z}$-graded quasifinite
representations with nonzero central charges. Finally, we construct two classes
of highest weight ${\bf Z}^2$-graded quasifinite representations by using these
${\bf Z}$-graded modules.
  In this paper, we find a two-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e systems
in dimension four with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_3^{(2)}$. We also
find a four-parameter family of 2-coupled $D_3^{(2)}$-systems in dimension
eight with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_5^{(2)}$. We show that for
each system, we give its symmetry and holomorphy conditions, respectively.
These symmetries, holomorphy conditions and invariant divisors are new.
  The Nielsen Realization problem asks when the group homomorphism from Diff(M)
to pi_0 Diff(M) admits a section. For M a closed surface, Kerckhoff proved that
a section exists over any finite subgroup, but Morita proved that if the genus
is large enough then no section exists over the entire mapping class group. We
prove the first nonexistence theorem of this type in dimension 4: if M is a
smooth closed oriented 4-manifold which contains a K3 surface as a connected
summand then no section exists over the whole of the mapping class group. This
is done by showing that certain obstructions lying in the rational cohomology
of B(pi_0 Diff(M)) are nonzero. We detect these classes by showing that they
are nonzero when pulled back to the moduli space of Einstein metrics on a K3
surface.
  We study an action of the skew divided difference operators on the Schubert
polynomials and give an explicit formula for structural constants for the
Schubert polynomials in terms of certain weighted paths in the Bruhat order on
the symmetric group. We also prove that, under certain assumptions, the skew
divided difference operators transform the Schubert polynomials into
polynomials with positive integer coefficients.
  The permanent of a square matrix is defined in a way similar to the
determinant, but without using signs. The exact computation of the permanent is
hard, but there are Monte-Carlo algorithms that can estimate general
permanents. Given a planar diagram of a link L with $n$ crossings, we define a
7n by 7n matrix whose permanent equals to the Jones polynomial of L. This
result accompanied with recent work of Freedman, Kitaev, Larson and Wang
provides a Monte-Carlo algorithm to any decision problem belonging to the class
BQP, i.e. such that it can be computed with bounded error in polynomial time
using quantum resources.
  Let $(R,\fr m)$ be a Noetherian local ring, $I$ an ideal of $R$ and $M, N$
two finitely generated $R$-modules. The first result of this paper is to prove
a vanishing theorem for generalized local cohomology modules which says that
$H^j_I(M,N)=0$ for all $j>\dim(R)$, provided $M$ is of finite projective
dimension. Next, we study and give characterizations for the least and the last
integer $r$ such that $\Supp(H^r_I(M,N))$ is infinite.
  In this paper, we construct a quantization functor, associating a complex
vector space H(V) to a finite dimensional symplectic vector space V over a
finite field of odd characteristic. As a result, we obtain a canonical model
for the Weil representation of the symplectic group Sp(V). The main new
technical result is a proof of a stronger form of the Stone-von Neumann
property for the Heisenberg group. Our result answers, for the case of the
Heisenberg group, a question of Kazhdan about the possible existence of a
canonical vector space attached to a coadjoint orbit of a general unipotent
group over finite field.
  Finite covers are a technique for building new structures from simpler ones.
The original motivation to study finite covers is in the Ladder theorem of
Zilber which describes how totally categorical structures are built from
strictly minimal sets by a sequence of covers.
  Let W be a first-order structure and r be an Aut(W)-congruence on W. In this
paper we define the almost-free finite covers of W with respect to r, and we
show how to construct them. These are a generalization of free finite covers. A
consequence of a result of Evans and Hrushovski in the paper "On the
automorphism groups of finite covers" is that any finite cover of W with
binding groups all equal to a simple non-abelian permutation group is
almost-free with respect to some r on W. Our main result gives a description
(up to isomorphism) in terms of the Aut(W)-congruences on W of the kernels of
principal finite covers of W with bindings groups equal at any point to a
simple non-abelian regular permutation group G. Then we analyze almost-free
finite covers of the set of ordered n-tuples of distinct elements from a
countable set Omega, regarded as a structure with automorphism group equal to
the Sym(Omega) and we show a result of biinterpretability.
  The pseudospectra (or spectral instability) of non-selfadjoint operators is a
topic of current interest in applied mathematics. In fact, for non-selfadjoint
operators the resolvent could be very large outside the spectrum, making the
numerical computation of the complex eigenvalues very hard. This has
importance, for example, in quantum mechanics, random matrix theory and fluid
dynamics.
  The occurence of pseudospectra for non-selfadjoint semiclassical differential
operators is due to the existence of quasimodes, i.e., approximate local
solutions to the eigenvalue problem. For scalar operators, the quasimodes
appear since the bracket condition is not satisfied for topological reasons,
see the paper by Dencker, Sjostrand and Zworski in Comm. Pure Appl. Math. 57
(2004), 384-415.
  In this paper we shall investigate how these result can be generalized to
square systems of semiclassical differential operators of principal type. These
are the systems whose principal symbol vanishes of first order on its kernel.
We show that the resolvent blows up as in the scalar case, except in a nowhere
dense set of degenerate values. We also define quasi-symmetrizable systems and
systems of subelliptic type for which we prove estimates on the resolvent.
  In paper found conditions that guarantee that solution of Loewner-Kufarev
equation maps unit disc onto domain with quasiconformal rectifiable boundary,
or it has continuation on closed unit disc, or it's inverse function has
continuation on closure of domain.
  Let G be a reductive group. The geometric Satake equivalence realized the
category of representations of the Langlands dual group ^LG in terms of
spherical perverse sheaves (or D-modules) on the affine Grassmannian
Gr_G=G((t))/G[[t]] of the original group G.
  In the present paper we perform a first step in realizing the category of
representations of the quantum group corresponding to ^LG in terms of the
geometry of Gr_G.
  The idea of the construction belongs to Jacob Lurie.
  For a class of one-dimensional holomorphic maps f of the Riemann sphere we
prove that for a wide class of potentials h the topological pressure is
entirely determined by the values of h on the repelling periodic points of f.
This is a version of a classical result of Bowen for hyperbolic diffeomorphisms
in the holomorphic non-uniformly hyperbolic setting.
  We show that there is significant cancellation in certain exponential sums
over small multiplicative subgroups of finite fields, giving an exposition of
the arguments by Bourgain and Chang.
  Motivated by the study of ribbon knots we explore symmetric unions, a
beautiful construction introduced by Kinoshita and Terasaka 50 years ago. It is
easy to see that every symmetric union represents a ribbon knot, but the
converse is still an open problem. Besides existence it is natural to consider
the question of uniqueness. In order to attack this question we extend the
usual Reidemeister moves to a family of moves respecting the symmetry, and
consider the symmetric equivalence thus generated. This notion being in place,
we discuss several situations in which a knot can have essentially distinct
symmetric union representations. We exhibit an infinite family of ribbon
two-bridge knots each of which allows two different symmetric union
representations.
  We prove the energy identity for min-max sequences of the Sacks-Uhlenbeck and
the biharmonic approximation of harmonic maps from surfaces into general target
manifolds. The proof relies on Hopf-differential type estimates for the two
approximations and on estimates for the concentration radius of bubbles.
  We study conchoids to algebraic curve from the perspective of algebraic
geometry, analyzing their main algebraic properties. We introduce the formal
definition of conchoid of an algebraic curve by means of incidence diagrams. We
prove that, with the exception of a circle centered at the focus and taking $d$
as its radius, the conchoid is an algebraic curve having at most two
irreducible components. In addition, we introduce the notions of special and
simple components of a conchoid. Moreover we state that, with the exception of
lines passing through the focus, the conchoid always has at least one simple
component and that, for almost every distance, all the components of the
conchoid are simple. We state that, in the reducible case, simple conchoid
components are birationally equivalent to the initial curve, and we show how
special components can be used to decide whether a given algebraic curve is the
conchoid of another curve.
  In Part I an odd meromorphic function f(s) has been constructed from the
Riemann zeta-function evaluated at one-half plus s. The conjunction of the
Riemann hypothesis and hypotheses advanced by the author in Part I is assumed.
In Part IV we derive the two-sided Laplace transform representation of f(s) on
the open vertical strip V of all s with real part between zero and four. An
additional hypothesis is used to prove that the Laplace density of f(s) on the
strip V is positive. Let z(n) be the nth critical zero of the Riemann
zeta-function of positive imaginary part in order of magnitude thereof. In Part
V an expression is derived for z(1). A relation is obtained of the pair z(n)
and the first derivative thereat of the zeta-function to the preceding such
pairs.
  We investigate the structure of solutions of boundary value problems for a
one-dimensional nonlinear system of pseudodifferential equations describing the
dynamics (rolling) of p-adic open, closed, and open-closed strings for a scalar
tachyon field using the method of successive approximations. For an open-closed
string, we prove that the method converges for odd values of p of the form
p=4n+1 under the condition that the solution for the closed string is known.
For p=2, we discuss the questions of the existence and the nonexistence of
solutions of boundary value problems and indicate the possibility of
discontinuous solutions appearing.
  We study complex projective manifolds X that admit surjective endomorphisms
f:X->X of degree at least two. In case f is etale, we prove structure theorems
that describe X. In particular, a rather detailed description is given if X is
a uniruled threefold. As to the ramified case, we first prove a general theorem
stating that the vector bundle associated to a Galois covering of projective
manifolds is ample (resp. nef) under very mild conditions. This is applied to
the study of ramified endomorphisms of Fano manifolds with second Betti number
one. It is conjectured that the projective space is the only Fano manifold
admitting admitting an endomorphism of degree d>1, and we prove that in several
cases.
  A part of the argumentation is based on a new characterization of the
projective space as the only manifold that admits an ample subsheaf in its
tangent bundle.
  We conjecture a combinatorial formula for the monomial expansion of the image
of any Schur function under the Bergeron-Garsia nabla operator. The formula
involves nested labeled Dyck paths weighted by area and a suitable "diagonal
inversion" statistic. Our model includes as special cases many previous
conjectures connecting the nabla operator to quantum lattice paths. The
combinatorics of the inverse Kostka matrix leads to an elementary proof of our
proposed formula when q=1. We also outline a possible approach for proving all
the extant nabla conjectures that reduces everything to the construction of
sign-reversing involutions on explicit collections of signed, weighted objects.
  Let h_R denote an L ^{\infty} normalized Haar function adapted to a dyadic
rectangle R contained in the unit cube in dimension d. We establish a
non-trivial lower bound on the L^{\infty} norm of the `hyperbolic' sums $$ \sum
_{|R|=2 ^{-n}} \alpha(R) h_R (x) $$ The lower bound is non-trivial in that we
improve the average case bound by n^{\eta} for some positive \eta, a function
of dimension d. As far as the authors know, this is the first result of this
type in dimension 4 and higher.
  This question is related to Conjectures in (1) Irregularity of Distributions,
(2) Approximation Theory and (3) Probability Theory. The method of proof of
this paper gives new results on these conjectures in all dimensions 4 and
higher.
  This paper builds upon prior work of Jozef Beck, from 1989, and first two
authors from 2006. These results were of the same nature, but only in dimension
3.
  We introduce new families of enhanced chaotic number generators in order to
compute very fast long series of pseudorandom numbers. The key feature of these
generators being the use of chaotic numbers themselves for sampling chaotic
subsequence of chaotic numbers in order to hide the generating function. We
explore numerically the properties of these new families and underline their
very high qualities and usefulness as CPRNG when series are computed up to 10
trillions iterations.
  This paper extends the construction of invariants for virtual knots to
virtual long knots and introduces two new invariant modules of virtual long
knots. Several interesting features are described that distinguish virtual long
knots from their classical counterparts with respect to their symmetries and
the concatenation product.
  This is a translation from the Latin original, "De valoribus integralium a
termino variabilis x=0 usque ad x=infinity extensorum" (1781). This is E675 in
the Enestrom index. Euler wants to find the location of the end point of a
clothoid, a type of spiral. He proves some general results about the gamma
function.
  Let $D$ and $G$ be copies of the open unit disc in $\C,$ let
  $A$ (resp. $B$) be a measurable subset of $\partial D$ (resp.
  $\partial G$), let $W$ be the 2-fold cross $\big((D\cup A)\times B\big)\cup
\big(A\times(B\cup G)\big),$ and let $M$ be a relatively closed subset of $W.$
Suppose in addition that $A$ and $B$ are of positive one-dimensional Lebesgue
measure and that $M$ is fiberwise polar (resp. fiberwise discrete) and that
$M\cap (A\times B)=\varnothing.$ We determine the "envelope of holomorphy"
$\hat{W\setminus M}$ of $W\setminus M$ in the sense that any function locally
bounded on $W\setminus M,$ measurable on $A\times B,$ and separately
holomorphic on $\big((A\times G) \cup (D\times B)\big)\setminus M$ "extends" to
a function holomorphic on $\hat{W\setminus M}.$
  We study a model of N-component complex fermions with a kinetic term that is
second order in derivatives. This symplectic fermion model has an Sp(2N)
symmetry, which for any N contains an SO(3) subgroup that can be identified
with rotational spin of spin-1/2 particles. Since the spin-1/2 representation
is not promoted to a representation of the Lorentz group, the model is not
fully Lorentz invariant, although it has a relativistic dispersion relation.
The hamiltonian is pseudo-hermitian, H^\dagger = C H C, which implies it has a
unitary time evolution. Renormalization-group analysis shows the model has a
low-energy fixed point that is a fermionic version of the Wilson-Fisher fixed
points. The critical exponents are computed to two-loop order. Possible
applications to condensed matter physics in 3 space-time dimensions are
discussed.
  The randomness rate of an infinite binary sequence is characterized by the
sequence of ratios between the Kolmogorov complexity and the length of the
initial segments of the sequence. It is known that there is no uniform
effective procedure that transforms one input sequence into another sequence
with higher randomness rate. By contrast, we display such a uniform effective
procedure having as input two independent sequences with positive but
arbitrarily small constant randomness rate. Moreover the transformation is a
truth-table reduction and the output has randomness rate arbitrarily close to
1.
  Let $X$ be a projective algebraic manifold and let $CH^r(X)$ be the Chow
group of algebraic cycles of codimension $r$ on $X$, modulo rational
equivalence. Working with a candidate Bloch-Beilinson filtration
$\{F^{\nu}\}_{\nu\geq 0}$ on $CH^r(X)\otimes {\Bbb Q}$ due to the second
author, we construct a space of arithmetic Hodge theoretic invariants $\nabla
J^{r,\nu}(X)$ and corresponding map $\phi_{X}^{r,\nu} :
Gr_{F}^{\nu}CH^r(X)\otimes {\Bbb Q} \to \nabla J^{r,\nu}(X)$, and determine
conditions on $X$ for which the kernel and image of $\phi_{X}^{r,\nu}$ are
``uncountably large''.
  We show that the cyclic lamplighter group $C_2 \bwr C_n$ embeds into Hilbert
space with distortion ${\rm O}(\sqrt{\log n})$. This matches the lower bound
proved by Lee, Naor and Peres in \cite{LeeNaoPer}, answering a question posed
in that paper. Thus the Euclidean distortion of $C_2 \bwr C_n$ is
$\Theta(\sqrt{\log n})$. Our embedding is constructed explicitly in terms of
the irreducible representations of the group. Since the optimal Euclidean
embedding of a finite group can always be chosen to be equivariant, as shown by
Aharoni, Maurey and Mityagin \cite{AhaMauMit} and by Gromov (see
\cite{deCTesVal}), such representation-theoretic considerations suggest a
general tool for obtaining upper and lower bounds on Euclidean embeddings of
finite groups.
  This article concerns the stability of a model for mass-spring systems with
positive damping and negative stiness. It is well known that when the
coefficients are frozen in time the system is unstable. Here we find conditions
on the variable cofficients to prove stability. In particular, we disprove the
believe that if the eigenvalues of the system change slowly in time the system
remains unstable. We extend some of our results for nonlinear systems.
  We compare the random group model of Gromov and the model of generic groups
of Arzhantseva and Ol'shanskii.
  This review presents the elastic theory of low-dimensional (one- and
two-dimensional) continua and its applications in bio- and nano-structures.
First, the curve and surface theory, as the geometric representation of the
low-dimensional continua, is briefly described through Cartan moving frame
method. The elastic theory of Kirchhoff rod, Helfrich rod, bending-soften rod,
fluid membrane, and solid shell is revisited. Secondly, the application and
availability of the elastic theory of low-dimensional continua in
bio-structures, including short DNA rings, lipid membranes, and cell membranes,
are discussed. The kink stability of short DNA rings is addressed by using the
theory of Kirchhoff rod, Helfrich rod, and bending-soften rod. The lipid
membranes obey the theory of fluid membrane. A cell membrane is simplified as a
composite shell of lipid bilayer and membrane skeleton, which is a little
similar to the solid shell. It is found that the membrane skeleton enhances
highly the mechanical stability of cell membranes. Thirdly, the application and
availability of the elastic theory of low-dimensional continua in
nano-structures, including graphene and carbon nanotubes, are discussed. A
revised Lenosky lattice model is proposed based on the local density
approximation. Its continuum form up to the second order terms of curvatures
and strains is the same as the free energy of 2D solid shells. Several typical
mechanical properties of carbon nanotubes are revisited and investigated based
on this continuum form. It is possible to avoid introducing the controversial
concepts, the Young's modulus and thickness of graphene and single-walled
carbon nanotubes, with this continuum form.
  We introduce a concept of multiplicity lattices of 2-multiarrangements,
determine the combinatorics and geometry of that lattice, and give a criterion
and method to construct a basis for derivation modules effectively.
  Quantum field theories (QFT's) on noncommutative spacetimes are currently
under intensive study. Usually such theories have world sheet noncommutativity.
In the present work, instead, we study QFT's with commutative world sheet and
noncommutative target space. Such noncommutativity can be interpreted in terms
of twisted statistics and is related to earlier work of Oeckl [1], and others
[2,3,4,5,6,7,8]. The twisted spectra of their free Hamiltonians has been found
earlier by Carmona et al [9,10]. We review their derivation and then compute
the partition function of one such typical theory. It leads to a deformed black
body spectrum, which is analysed in detail. The difference between the usual
and the deformed black body spectrum appears in the region of high frequencies.
Therefore we expect that the deformed black body radiation may potentially be
used to compute a GZK cut-off which will depend on the noncommutative parameter
$\theta$.
  In this paper we study the Hochschild cohomology ring of convolution algebras
associated to orbifolds, as well as their deformation quantizations. In the
first case the ring structure is given in terms of a wedge product on twisted
polyvectorfields on the inertia orbifold. After deformation quantization, the
ring structure defines a product on the cohomology of the inertia orbifold. We
study the relation between this product and an $S^1$-equivariant version of the
Chen--Ruan product. In particular, we give a de Rham model for this equivariant
orbifold cohomology.
  We show that Py-Calabi quasi-morphism on the group of Hamiltonian
diffeomorphisms of surfaces of higher genus gives rise to a quasi-state.
  Let $L^1_\om(G)$ be a Beurling algebra on a locally compact abelian group
$G$. We look for general conditions on the weight which allows the vanishing of
continuous derivations of $L^1_\om(G)$. This leads us to introducing
vector-valued Beurling algebras and considering the translation of operators on
them. This is then used to connect the augmentation ideal to the behavior of
derivation space. We apply these results to give examples of various classes of
Beurling algebras which are weakly amenable, 2-weakly amenable or fail to be
even 2-weakly amenable.
  We introduced a braided Sweedler cohomology, which is adequate to work with
the H-braided cleft extensions studied in [J. A. Guccione and J. J. Guccione,
Theory of braided Hopf crossed products, Journal of Algebra, Vol 261 (2003)
54-101]
  We extend the Bipolar Theorem of Brannath and Schachermayer (1999) to the
space of nonnegative cadlag supermartingales on a filtered probability space.
We formulate the notion of fork-convexity as an analogue to convexity in this
setting. As an intermediate step in the proof of our main result we establish a
conditional version of the Bipolar theorem. In an application to mathematical
finance we describe the structure of the set of dual processes of the utility
maximization problem of Kramkov and Schachermayer (1999) and give a
budget-constraint characterization of admissible consumption processes in an
incomplete semimartingale market.
  We consider the problem of maximizing expected utility from consumption in a
constrained incomplete semimartingale market with a random endowment process,
and establish a general existence and uniqueness result using techniques from
convex duality. The notion of asymptotic elasticity of Kramkov and
Schachermayer is extended to the time-dependent case. By imposing no smoothness
requirements on the utility function in the temporal argument, we can treat
both pure consumption and combined consumption/terminal wealth problems, in a
common framework. To make the duality approach possible, we provide a detailed
characterization of the enlarged dual domain which is reminiscent of the
enlargement of $L^1$ to its topological bidual $(L^{\infty})^*$, a space of
finitely-additive measures. As an application, we treat the case of a
constrained It\^ o-process market-model.
  We consider the path space of a curved manifold on which a point particle is
introduced in a conservative physical system with constant total energy to
formulate its action functional and geodesic equation together with breaks on
the path. The second variation of the action functional is exploited to yield
the geodesic deviation equation and to discuss the Jacobi fields on the curved
manifold. We investigate the topology of the path space using the action
functional on it and its physical meaning by defining the gradient of the
action functional, the space of bounded flow energy solutions and the moduli
space associated with the critical points of the action functional. We also
consider the particle motion on the $n$-sphere $S^{n}$ in the conservative
physical system to discuss explicitly the moduli space of the path space and
the corresponding homology groups.
  We define a new notion of cuspidality for representations of $\GL_n$ over a
finite quotient $\Oh_k$ of the ring of integers $\Oh$ of a non-Archimedean
local field $F$ using geometric and infinitesimal induction functors, which
involve automorphism groups $G_\lambda$ of torsion $\Oh$\nobreakdash-modules.
When $n$ is a prime, we show that this notion of cuspidality is equivalent to
strong cuspidality, which arises in the construction of supercuspidal
representations of $\GL_n(F)$. We show that strongly cuspidal representations
share many features of cuspidal representations of finite general linear
groups. In the function field case, we show that the construction of the
representations of $\GL_n(\Oh_k)$ for $k\geq 2$ for all $n$ is equivalent to
the construction of the representations of all the groups $G_\lambda$. A
functional equation for zeta functions for representations of $\GL_n(\Oh_k)$ is
established for representations which are not contained in an infinitesimally
induced representation. All the cuspidal representations for $\GL_4(\Oh_2)$ are
constructed. Not all these representations are strongly cuspidal.
  We describe explicitly the whole structures of the $(g,K)$-modules of
principal series representations of $Sp(3,R)$. We apply this result to
determine the holonomic system characterizing those Whittaker functions.
  We derive rigorous results describing the asymptotic dynamics of a discrete
time model of spiking neurons introduced in \cite{BMS}. Using symbolic dynamic
techniques we show how the dynamics of membrane potential has a one to one
correspondence with sequences of spikes patterns (``raster plots''). Moreover,
though the dynamics is generically periodic, it has a weak form of initial
conditions sensitivity due to the presence of a sharp threshold in the model
definition. As a consequence, the model exhibits a dynamical regime
indistinguishable from chaos in numerical experiments.
  In this note we compute some enumerative invariants of real and complex
projective spaces by means of some enriched graphs called floor diagrams.
  We extend the state models for Jones and Alexander polynomials of classical
links to state models of 2-variable polynomials in the case of singular links.
Moreover, we extend both of them to polynomials with d+1 variables for long
singular knots with exactly d double points. These extensions can detect
non-invertibility of long singular knots.
  We define a sextic invariant J on the seven-dimensional space of degree three
spherical harmonics and show that J is positive if and only if the nodal set of
the spherical harmonic contains the vertices of exactly two regular icosahedra.
The proof uses the geometry of the Clebsch diagonal cubic surface, Atiyah's
classification of vector bundles on an elliptic curve and a Fano threefold
introduced by Mukai.
  Link Floer homology is an invariant for links which has recently been
described entirely in a combinatorial way. Originally constructed with mod 2
coefficients, it was generalized to integer coefficients thanks to a sign
refinement. In this paper, thanks to the spin extension of the permutation
group we give an alternative construction of the combinatorial link Floer chain
complex associated to a grid diagram with integer coefficients. We prove that
the filtered homology of this complex is an invariant for the link and that it
gives the previous sign refinement by means of a 2-cohomological class
corresponding to the spin extension of the permutation group.
  Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) is the basic body of many statistical
algorithms and few users question whether SVD is properly handling its job.
  SVD aims at evaluating the decomposition that best approximates a data
matrix, given some rank restriction. However often we are interested in the
best components of the decomposition rather than in the best approximation .
This conflict of objectives leads us to introduce {\em Total SVD}, where the
word "Total" is taken as in "Total" least squares.
  SVD is a least squares method and, therefore, is very sensitive to gross
errors in the data matrix. We make SVD robust by imposing a weight to each of
the matrix entries. Breakdown properties are excellent.
  Algorithmic aspects are handled; they rely on high dimension fixed point
computations.
  Geometric methods proposed by Stallings for treating finitely generated
subgroups of free groups were successfully used by many authors to solve a wide
collection of decision problems for free groups and their subgroups.
  In the present paper we employ our generalized Stallings' folding method to
introduce a procedure, which given a subgroup H of a free product of finite
groups reads off its Kurosh decomposition from the subgroup graph of H.
  Within the program of finding axiomatizations for various parts of
computability logic, it was proved earlier that the logic of interactive Turing
reduction is exactly the implicative fragment of Heyting's intuitionistic
calculus. That sort of reduction permits unlimited reusage of the computational
resource represented by the antecedent. An at least equally basic and natural
sort of algorithmic reduction, however, is the one that does not allow such
reusage. The present article shows that turning the logic of the first sort of
reduction into the logic of the second sort of reduction takes nothing more
than just deleting the contraction rule from its Gentzen-style axiomatization.
The first (Turing) sort of interactive reduction is also shown to come in three
natural versions. While those three versions are very different from each
other, their logical behaviors (in isolation) turn out to be indistinguishable,
with that common behavior being precisely captured by implicative
intuitionistic logic. Among the other contributions of the present article is
an informal introduction of a series of new -- finite and bounded -- versions
of recurrence operations and the associated reduction operations. An online
source on computability logic can be found at
http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~giorgi/cl.html
  Let $R$ be a valuation ring and let $Q$ be its total quotient ring. It is
proved that any singly projective (respectively flat) module is finitely
projective if and only if $Q$ is maximal (respectively artinian). It is shown
that each singly projective module is a content module if and only if any
non-unit of $R$ is a zero-divisor and that each singly projective module is
locally projective if and only if $R$ is self injective. Moreover, $R$ is
maximal if and only if each singly projective module is separable, if and only
if any flat content module is locally projective. Necessary and sufficient
conditions are given for a valuation ring with non-zero zero-divisors to be
strongly coherent or $\pi$-coherent. A complete characterization of
semihereditary commutative rings which are $\pi$-coherent is given. When $R$ is
a commutative ring with a self FP-injective quotient ring $Q$, it is proved
that each flat $R$-module is finitely projective if and only if $Q$ is perfect.
  For closed and connected subgroups G of SO(n), we study the energy functional
on the space of G-structures of a (compact) Riemannian manifold M, where
G-structures are considered as sections of the quotient bundle O(M)/G. Then, we
deduce the corresponding first and second variation formulae and the
characterising conditions for critical points by means of tools closely related
with the study of G-structures. In this direction, we show the role in the
energy functional played by the intrinsic torsion of the G-structure. Moreover,
we analyse the particular case G=U(n) for even-dimensional manifolds. This
leads to the study of harmonic almost Hermitian manifolds and harmonic maps
from M into O(M)/U(n).
  In his treatise on floating bodies Archimedes determines the equilibrium
positions of a floating paraboloid segment, but only in the case when the basis
of the segment is either completely outside of the fluid or completely
submerged. Here we give a mathematical model for the remaining case, i.e., two
simple conditions which describe the equilibria in closed form. We provide
tools for finding all equilibria in a reliable way and for the classification
of these equilibria. This paper can be considered as a continuation of a recent
article of Rorres.
  We consider a metric graph $\mathcal{G}$ made of two graphs $\mathcal{G}_1$
and $\mathcal{G}_2$ attached at one point. We derive a formula relating the
spectral determinant of the Laplace operator
$S_\mathcal{G}(\gamma)=\det(\gamma-\Delta)$ in terms of the spectral
determinants of the two subgraphs. The result is generalized to describe the
attachment of $n$ graphs. The formulae are also valid for the spectral
determinant of the Schr\"odinger operator $\det(\gamma-\Delta+V(x))$.
  We establish some upper and lower bounds for the number of rational points of
Prym varieties over finite fields.
  We show that certain free energy functionals that are not convex with respect
to the usual convex structure on their domain of definition, are strictly
convex in the sense of displacement convexity under a natural change of
variables. We use this to show that in certain cases, the only critical points
of these functionals are minimizers. This approach based on displacement
convexity permits us to treat multicomponent systems as well as single
component systems. The developments produce new examples of displacement convex
functionals, and, in the multi-component setting, jointly displacement convex
functionals.
  In this paper, we investigate the asymptotic spectrum of complex or real
Deformed Wigner matrices $(M_N)_N$ defined by $M_N=W_N/\sqrt{N}+A_N$ where
$W_N$ is an $N\times N$ Hermitian (resp., symmetric) Wigner matrix whose
entries have a symmetric law satisfying a Poincar\'{e} inequality. The matrix
$A_N$ is Hermitian (resp., symmetric) and deterministic with all but finitely
many eigenvalues equal to zero. We first show that, as soon as the first
largest or last smallest eigenvalues of $A_N$ are sufficiently far from zero,
the corresponding eigenvalues of $M_N$ almost surely exit the limiting
semicircle compact support as the size $N$ becomes large. The corresponding
limits are universal in the sense that they only involve the variance of the
entries of $W_N$. On the other hand, when $A_N$ is diagonal with a sole simple
nonnull eigenvalue large enough, we prove that the fluctuations of the largest
eigenvalue are not universal and vary with the particular distribution of the
entries of $W_N$.
  The present text is an introduction to \'Ecalle's theory of resurgent
functions and alien calculus, in connection with problems of exponentially
small separatrix splitting. An outline of the resurgent treatment of Abel's
equation for resonant dynamics in one complex variable is included. The
emphasis is on examples of nonlinear difference equations, as a simple and
natural way of introducing the concepts.
  We discuss the quasianalytic properties of various spaces of functions
suitable for one-dimensional small divisor problems. These spaces are formed of
functions C^1-holomorphic on certain compact sets K_j of the Riemann sphere (in
the Whitney sense), as is the solution of a linear or non-linear small divisor
problem when viewed as a function of the multiplier (the intersection of K_j
with the unit circle is defined by a Diophantine-type condition, so as to avoid
the divergence caused by roots of unity). It turns out that a kind of
generalized analytic continuation through the unit circle is possible under
suitable conditions on the K_j's.
  We consider for the time-dependent Maxwell's equations the inverse problem of
identifying locations and certain properties of small electromagnetic
inhomogeneities in a homogeneous background medium from dynamic measurements of
the tangential component of the magnetic field on the boundary (or a part of
the boundary) of a domain.
  We study the steady state solutions of a generalized logistic type equation
on a complete Riemannian manifold. We provide sufficient conditions for
existence, respectively non-existence of positive solutions, which depend on
the relative size of the coefficients and their mutual interaction with the
geometry of the manifold, which is mostly taken into account by means of
conditions on the volume growth of geodesic balls.
  This paper considers M-estimation of a nonlinear regression model with
multiple change-points occuring at unknown times. The multi-phase random design
regression model, discontinuous in each change-point, have an arbitrary error
$\epsilon$. In the case when the number of jumps is known, the M-estimator of
locations of breaks and of regression parameters are studied. These estimators
are consistent and the distribution of the regression parameter estimators is
Gaussian. The estimator of each change-point converges, with the rate $n^{-1}$,
to the smallest minimizer of the independent compound Poisson processes. The
results are valid for a large class of error distributions.
  We give a formula and an estimation for the number of irreducible polynomials
in two (or more) variables over a finite field.
  We compute the Dijkgraaf-Witten invariants of surfaces in terms of projective
representations of groups. As an application we prove that the complex
Dijkgraaf-Witten invariants of surfaces of positive genus are positive
integers.
  Consider a $N\times n$ random matrix $Y_n=(Y_{ij}^{n})$ where the entries are
given by $$ Y_{ij}^{n}=\frac{\sigma_{ij}(n)}{\sqrt{n}} X_{ij}^{n} $$ the
$X_{ij}^{n}$ being centered, independent and identically distributed random
variables with unit variance and $(\sigma_{ij}(n); 1\le i\le N, 1\le j\le n)$
being an array of numbers we shall refer to as a variance profile. We study in
this article the fluctuations of the random variable $$ \log\det(Y_n Y_n^* +
\rho I_N) $$ where $Y^*$ is the Hermitian adjoint of $Y$ and $\rho > 0$ is an
additional parameter. We prove that when centered and properly rescaled, this
random variable satisfies a Central Limit Theorem (CLT) and has a Gaussian
limit whose parameters are identified. A complete description of the scaling
parameter is given; in particular it is shown that an additional term appears
in this parameter in the case where the 4$^\textrm{th}$ moment of the
$X_{ij}$'s differs from the 4$^{\textrm{th}}$ moment of a Gaussian random
variable. Such a CLT is of interest in the field of wireless communications.
  We give geometrical conditions under which there exist extremal functions for
the sharp $L^2$-Nash inequality.
  In this article we solve the complex Monge-Ampere equation for measures with
large singular part. This result generalizes classical results by Demailly,
Lelong and Lempert a.o., who considered singular parts carried on discrete
sets. By using our result we obtain a generalization of Kolodziej's subsolution
theorem. More precisely, we prove that if a non-negative Borel measure is
dominated by a complex Monge-Ampere measure, then it is a complex Monge-Ampere
measure.
  The energy in a square membrane $\Omega$ subject to constant viscous damping
on a subset $\omega\subset \Omega$ decays exponentially in time as soon as
$\omega$ satisfies a geometrical condition known as the "Bardos-Lebeau-Rauch"
condition. The rate $\tau(\omega)$ of this decay satisfies $\tau(\omega)= 2
\min(-\mu(\omega), g(\omega))$ (see Lebeau [Math. Phys. Stud. 19 (1996)
73-109]). Here $\mu(\omega)$ denotes the spectral abscissa of the damped wave
equation operator and $g(\omega)$ is a number called the geometrical quantity
of $\omega$ and defined as follows. A ray in $\Omega$ is the trajectory
generated by the free motion of a mass-point in $\Omega$ subject to elastic
reflections on the boundary. These reflections obey the law of geometrical
optics. The geometrical quantity $g(\omega)$ is then defined as the upper limit
(large time asymptotics) of the average trajectory length. We give here an
algorithm to compute explicitly $g(\omega)$ when $\omega$ is a finite union of
squares.
  Let R be a sufficiently saturated o-minimal expansion of a real closed field,
let O be the convex hull of the rationals in R, and let st: O^n \to
\mathbb{R}^n be the standard part map. For X \subseteq R^n define st(X):=st(X
\cap O^n). We let \mathbb{R}_{\ind} be the structure with underlying set
\mathbb{R} and expanded by all sets of the form st(X), where X \subseteq R^{n}
is definable in R and n=1,2,.... We show that the subsets of \mathbb{R}^n that
are definable in \mathbb{R}_{\ind} are exactly the finite unions of sets of the
form st(X) \setminus st(Y), where X,Y \subseteq R^n are definable in R. A
consequence of the proof is a partial answer to a question by Hrushovski,
Peterzil and Pillay about the existence of measures with certain invariance
properties on the lattice of bounded definable sets in R^n.
  We discuss the possibility to represent smooth nonnegative matrix-valued
functions as finite linear combinations of fixed matrices with positive
real-valued coefficients whose square roots are Lipschitz continuous. This
issue is reduced to a similar problem for smooth functions with values in a
polyhedron.
  For each clone C on a set A there is an associated equivalence relation,
called C-equivalence, on the set of all operations on A, which relates two
operations iff each one is a substitution instance of the other using
operations from C. In this paper we prove that if C is a discriminator clone on
a finite set, then there are only finitely many C-equivalence classes.
Moreover, we show that the smallest discriminator clone is minimal with respect
to this finiteness property. For discriminator clones of Boolean functions we
explicitly describe the associated equivalence relations.
  In 1987 Roberts completed the proof of the New Intersection Theorem (NIT) by
settling the mixed characteristic case using local Chern characters, as
developed by Fulton and also by Roberts. His proof has been the only one
recorded of the NIT in mixed characteristic.
  This paper gives a new proof of this theorem, one which mostly parallels
Roberts' original proof, but avoids the use of local Chern characters. Instead,
the proof here uses Adams operations on K-theory with supports as developed by
Gillet-Soule.
  In a preceding paper [E.J.ofProb.34,860-892,(2006)], we proved a sewing lemma
which was a key result for the study of Holder continuous functions. In this
paper we give a non-commutative version of this lemma with some applications.
  We give the asymptotic distribution of the length of partial coalescent trees
for Beta and related coalescents. This allows us to give the asymptotic
distribution of the number of (neutral) mutations in the partial tree. This is
a first step to study the asymptotic distribution of a natural estimator of DNA
mutation rate for species with large families.
  For an even Dirichlet character psi, we obtain a formula for L(1,psi) in
terms of a sum of Dirichlet L-series evaluated at s=2 and s=3 and a rapidly
convergent numerical series involving the central binomial coefficients. We
then derive a class number formula for real quadratic number fields by taking
L(s,psi) to be the quadratic L-series associated with these fields.
  We study models of spatial growth processes where initially there are sources
of growth (indicated by the colour green) and sources of a growth-stopping
(paralyzing) substance (indicated by red). The green sources expand and may
merge with others (there is no `inter-green' competition). The red substance
remains passive as long as it is isolated. However, when a green cluster comes
in touch with the red substance, it is immediately invaded by the latter, stops
growing and starts to act as red substance itself. In our main model space is
represented by a graph, of which initially each vertex is randomly green, red
or white (vacant), and the growth of the green clusters is similar to that in
first-passage percolation. The main issues we investigate are whether the model
is well-defined on an infinite graph (e.g. the $d$-dimensional cubic lattice),
and what can be said about the distribution of the size of a green cluster just
before it is paralyzed. We show that, if the initial density of red vertices is
positive, and that of white vertices is sufficiently small, the model is indeed
well-defined and the above distribution has an exponential tail. In fact, we
believe this to be true whenever the initial density of red is positive. This
research also led to a relation between invasion percolation and critical
Bernoulli percolation which seems to be of independent interest.
  Let ${n_k}$ be an increasing lacunary sequence, i.e., $n_{k+1}/n_k>1+r$ for
some $r>0$. In 1987, P. Erdos asked for the chromatic number of a graph $G$ on
the integers, where two integers $a,b$ are connected by an edge iff their
difference $|a-b|$ is in the sequence ${n_k}$. Y. Katznelson found a connection
to a Diophantine approximation problem (also due to Erdos): the existence of
$x$ in $(0,1)$ such that all the multiples $n_j x$ are at least distance
$\delta(x)>0$ from the set of integers. Katznelson bounded the chromatic number
of $G$ by $Cr^{-2}|\log r|$. We apply the Lov\'asz local lemma to establish
that $\delta(x)>cr|\log r|^{-1}$ for some $x$, which implies that the chromatic
number of $G$ is at most $Cr^{-1} |\log r|$. This is sharp up to the
logarithmic factor.
  In this paper, we study the end-to-end distortion/delay tradeoff for a
analogue source transmitted over a fading channel. The analogue source is
quantized and stored in a buffer until it is transmitted. There are two extreme
cases as far as buffer delay is concerned: no delay and infinite delay. We
observe that there is a significant power gain by introducing a buffer delay.
Our goal is to investigate the situation between these two extremes. Using
recently proposed \emph{effective capacity} concept, we derive a closed-form
formula for this tradeoff. For SISO case, an asymptotically tight upper bound
for our distortion-delay curve is derived, which approaches to the infinite
delay lower bound as $\mathcal{D}_\infty \exp(\frac{C}{\tau_n})$, with $\tau_n$
is the normalized delay, $C$ is a constant. For more general MIMO channel, we
computed the distortion SNR exponent -- the exponential decay rate of the
expected distortion in the high SNR regime. Numerical results demonstrate that
introduction of a small amount delay can save significant transmission power.
  We compare the behavior of a wave packet in the presence of a complex and a
pure quaternionic potential step. This analysis, done for a gaussian
convolution function, sheds new light on the possibility to recognize
quaternionic deviations from standard quantum mechanics.
  In this article we give an algorithm for the computation of the number of
rational points on the Jacobian variety of a generic ordinary hyperelliptic
curve defined over a finite field of cardinality $q$ with time complexity
$O(n^{2+o(1)})$ and space complexity $O(n^2)$, where $n=\log(q)$. In the latter
complexity estimate the genus and the characteristic are assumed as fixed. Our
algorithm forms a generalization of both, the AGM algorithm of J.-F. Mestre and
the canonical lifting method of T. Satoh. We canonically lift a certain
arithmetic invariant of the Jacobian of the hyperelliptic curve in terms of
theta constants. The theta null values are computed with respect to a
semi-canonical theta structure of level $2^\nu p$ where $\nu >0$ is an integer
and $p=\mathrm{char}(\F_q)>2$. The results of this paper suggest a global
positive answer to the question whether there exists a quasi-quadratic time
algorithm for the computation of the number of rational points on a generic
ordinary abelian variety defined over a finite field.
  We investigate self-dual vertex operator algebras (VOAs) and super algebras
(SVOAs). Using the genus one correlation functions, it is shown that self-dual
SVOAs exist only for half-integral central charges. It is described how
self-dual SVOAs can be constructed from self-dual VOAs of larger central
charge. The analogy with integral lattices and binary codes is emphasized.
  One main result is the construction of the shorter Moonshine module, a
self-dual SVOA of central charge 23.5 on which the Baby monster - the second
largest sporadic simple group - acts by automorphisms. The shorter Moonshine
module has the character q^(-47/48)*(1+ 4371q^(3/2)+ 96256q^2+ 1143745q^(5/2)
+...) and is the "shorter cousin" of the Moonshine module. Its lattice and code
analog are the shorter Leech lattice and shorter Golay code. We conjecture that
the shorter Moonshine module is the unique SVOA with this character.
  The final chapter introduces the notion of extremal VOAs and SVOAs. These are
self-dual (S)VOAs with character having the same first few coefficients as the
vacuum representation of the Virasoro algebra of the same central charge. We
show that extremal VOAs exist at least for the central charges 8, 16, 24, 32,
40 and that extremal SVOAs exist only for the central charges c=0.5, 1, ...,
7.5, 8, 12, 14, 15, 15.5, 23.5 and 24. Examples for c=24 (resp. 23.5) are the
(shorter) Moonshine module. Again, our results are similar to results known for
codes and lattices.
  Braided doubles provide a unifying framework for classical and quantum
universal enveloping algebras and rational Cherednik algebras. They are a class
of algebras with triangular decomposition, arising from a deformation problem,
the solutions to which are called quasi-Yetter-Drinfeld modules. A basic family
of quasi-YD modules is provided by braidings (matrices satisfying the quantum
Yang-Baxter equation); these give rise to quantum versions of the Weyl algebra,
where the role of polynomial rings is played by Nichols-Woronowicz algebras.
Rational Cherednik algebras for t = 0 emerge as subalgebras in doubles of
Nichols-Woronowicz algebras. For nonzero t, the Nichols-Woronowicz algebra is
replaced with an algebra associated to the classical Yang-Baxter equation.
  Control systems are usually modeled by differential equations describing how
physical phenomena can be influenced by certain control parameters or inputs.
Although these models are very powerful when dealing with physical phenomena,
they are less suitable to describe software and hardware interfacing the
physical world. For this reason there is a growing interest in describing
control systems through symbolic models that are abstract descriptions of the
continuous dynamics, where each "symbol" corresponds to an "aggregate" of
states in the continuous model. Since these symbolic models are of the same
nature of the models used in computer science to describe software and
hardware, they provide a unified language to study problems of control in which
software and hardware interact with the physical world. Furthermore the use of
symbolic models enables one to leverage techniques from supervisory control and
algorithms from game theory for controller synthesis purposes. In this paper we
show that every incrementally globally asymptotically stable nonlinear control
system is approximately equivalent (bisimilar) to a symbolic model. The
approximation error is a design parameter in the construction of the symbolic
model and can be rendered as small as desired. Furthermore if the state space
of the control system is bounded the obtained symbolic model is finite. For
digital control systems, and under the stronger assumption of incremental
input-to-state stability, symbolic models can be constructed through a suitable
quantization of the inputs.
  We prove that if $\pi$ is a recursive set of primes, then pointlike sets are
decidable for the pseudovariety of semigroups whose subgroups are $\pi$-groups.
In particular, when $\pi$ is the empty set, we obtain Henckell's decidability
of aperiodic pointlikes. Our proof, restricted to the case of aperiodic
semigroups, is simpler than the original proof.
  In this paper we determine the number of the meaningful compositions of
higher order of the differential operations and Gateaux directional derivative.
  We introduce new models of very weakly coupled logistic and tent maps for
which orbits of very long period are found. The length of these periods is far
greater than one billion. The property of these models relatively to the
distribution of the iterated points (invariant measure) is described.
  Let y''' = f(x, y, y', y'') be a 3rd order ODE. By Cartan equivalence method,
we will study the local equivalence problem under the transformations group of
time-fixed coordinates.
  A short proof of the generalized Riemann hypothesis (gRH in short) for zeta
functions $\zeta_{k}$ of algebraic number fields $k$ - based on the Hecke's
proof of the functional equation for $\zeta_{k}$ and the method of the proof of
the Riemann hypothesis derived in [$M_{A}$] (algebraic proof of the Riemann
hypothesis) is given. The generalized Riemann hypothesis for Dirichlet
L-functions is an immediately consequence of (gRH) for $\zeta_{k}$ and suitable
product formula which connects the Dedekind zetas with L-functions.
  Given a Hamiltonian $H$ on a Hilbert space $\mathcal H$ it is shown that,
under the assumption that $\sigma(H)=\sigma_{ac}(H)=R^+$, there exist unique
positive operators $T_F$ and $T_B$ registering the Schr\"odinger time evolution
generated by $H$ in the forward (future) direction and backward (past)
direction respectively. These operators may be considered as time observables
for the quantum evolution. Moreover, it is shown that the same operators may
serve as time observables in the construction of quantum stochastic
differential equations and quantum stochastic processes in the framework of the
Hudson-Parthasarathy quantum stochastic calculus. The basic mechanism enabling
for the definition of the time observables originates from the recently
developed semigroup decomposition formalism used in the description of the time
evolution of resonances in quantum mechanical scattering problems.
  Each relational structure X has an associated Gaifman graph, which endows X
with the properties of a graph. Suppose that X is infinite, connected and of
bounded degree. A first-order sentence in the language of X is almost surely
true (resp. a.s. false) for finite substructures of X if for every element x in
X, the fraction of substructures of the ball of radius n around x which satisfy
the sentence approaches 1 (resp. 0) as n approaches infinity. Suppose further
that, for every finite substructure, X has a disjoint isomorphic substructure.
Then every sentence is a.s. true or a.s. false for finite substructures of X.
This is one form of the geometric zero-one law. We formulate it also in a form
that does not mention the ambient infinite structure. In addition, we
investigate various questions related to the geometric zero-one law.
  We address the problem of computing in the group of $\ell^k$-torsion rational
points of the jacobian variety of algebraic curves over finite fields, with a
view toward computing modular representations.
  We develop a structure theory for two classes of infinite dimensional modules
over tame hereditary algebras: the Baer modules, and the Mittag-Leffler ones.
  We extend to the co-Frobenius case a result of Drinfeld and Radford related
to the fourth power of the antipode of a finite dimensional (co)quasitriangular
Hopf algebra.
  It is well known that Pythagorean triples can be parametrized by two triples
of polynomials with integer coefficients. We show that no single triple of
polynomials with integer coefficients in any number of variables is sufficient,
but that there exists a parametrization of Pythagorean triples by a single
triple of integer-valued polynomials.
  If, for a subset S of Z^k, we compare the conditions of being parametrizable
(a) by a single k-tuple of polynomials with integer coefficients, (b) by a
single k-tuple of integer-valued polynomials and, (c) by finitely many k-tuples
of polynomials with integer coefficients (variables ranging through the
integers in each case) then (a) implies (b) (obviously), (b) implies (c), and
neither converse holds. Condition (b) is equivalent to the set S being the set
of integer values taken by some k-tuple of polynomials with rational
coefficients as the variables range through the integers. We also show that
every co-finite subset of Z^k is parametrizable a single k-tuple of polynomials
with integer coefficients.
  We prove that monotonicity of density and energy inequality imply the
rectifiability of the singular sets for Yang-Mills flow.
  We calculate exact values of the decycling numbers of $C_{m} \times C_{n}$
for $m=3,4$, of $C_{n}^{2}$, and of $C_{n}^{3}$.
  In [1] was considered the superintegrable system which describes the magnetic
dipole with spin 1/2 (neutron) in the field of linear current. Here we present
its generalization for any spin which preserves superintegrability. The
dynamical symmetry stays the same as it is for spin 1/2.
  Every ring extension of $A$ by $R$ induces a pair of group homomorphisms
$\mathcal{L}^{*}:R\to End_\Z(A)/L(A);\mathcal{R}^{*}:R\to End_\Z(A)/R(A),$
preserving multiplication, satisfying some certain conditions. A such 4-tuple
$(R,A,\mathcal{L}^{*},\mathcal{R}^{*})$ is called a ring pre-extension. Each
ring pre-extension induces a $R$-bimodule structure on bicenter $K_A$ of ring
$A,$ and induces an obstruction $k,$ which is a 3-cocycle of $\Z$-algebra $R,$
with coefficients in $R$-bimodule $K_A$ in the sense of Shukla. Each
obstruction $k$ in this sense induces a structure of a regular Ann-category of
type $(R,K_A).$ This result gives us the first application of Ann-category in
extension problems of algebraic structures, as well as in cohomology theories.
  Using GCH, we force the following: There are continuum many simple cardinal
characteristics with pairwise different values.
  We apply the technique of S^1-equivariant localization to sheaves on loop
spaces in derived algebraic geometry, and obtain a fundamental link between two
families of categories at the heart of geometric representation theory. Namely,
we categorify the well known relationship between free loop spaces, cyclic
homology and de Rham cohomology to recover the category of D-modules on a
smooth stack X as a localization of the category of S^1-equivariant coherent
sheaves on its loop space LX. The main observation is that this procedure
connects categories of equivariant D-modules on flag varieties with categories
of equivariant coherent sheaves on the Steinberg variety and its relatives.
This provides a direct connection between the geometry of finite and affine
Hecke algebras and braid groups, and a uniform geometric construction of all of
the categorical parameters for representations of real and complex reductive
groups. This paper forms the first step in a project to apply the geometric
Langlands program to the complex and real local Langlands programs, which we
describe.
  This note extends Voiculescu's S-transform based analytical machinery for
free multiplicative convolution to the case where the mean of the probability
measures vanishes. We show that with the right interpretation of the
S-transform in the case of vanishing mean, the usual formula makes perfectly
good sense.
  Second order parabolic equations in Sobolev spaces with mixed norms are
studied. The leading coefficients (except $a^{11}$) are measurable in both time
and one spatial variable, and VMO in the other spatial variables. The
coefficient $a^{11}$ is measurable in time and VMO in the spatial variables.
The unique solvability of equations in the whole space is applied to solving
Dirichlet and oblique derivative problems for parabolic equations defined in a
half-space.
  The paper provides a different proof of the result of Brendle-Schoen on the
differential sphere theorem. It is shown directly that the invariant cone of
curvature operators with positive (or non-negative) complex sectional curvature
is preserved by the Ricci flow. This implies, by a result of B\"ohm-Wilking,
that the normalized Ricci flow deforms such a metric to a metric of constant
positive curvature. Using earlier work of Yau and Zheng it can be shown that a
metric with strictly (pointwise) 1/4-pinched sectional curvature has positive
complex sectional curvature. This gives a direct proof of Brendle-Schoen's
recent differential sphere theorem, bypassing any discussion of positive
isotropic curvature.
  In this paper, we propose a probabilistic approach to the study of the
characteristic polynomial of a random unitary matrix. We recover the Mellin
Fourier transform of such a random polynomial, first obtained by Keating and
Snaith, using a simple recursion formula, and from there we are able to obtain
the joint law of its radial and angular parts in the complex plane. In
particular, we show that the real and imaginary parts of the logarithm of the
characteristic polynomial of a random unitary matrix can be represented in law
as the sum of independent random variables. From such representations, the
celebrated limit theorem obtained by Keating and Snaith is now obtained from
the classical central limit theorems of Probability Theory, as well as some new
estimates for the rate of convergence and law of the iterated logarithm type
results.
  We give formulae for the Ozsvath-Szabo invariants of 4-manifolds X obtained
by fiber sum of two manifolds M_1, M_2 along surfaces S_1, S_2 having trivial
normal bundle and genus g>0. The formulae follow from a general theorem on the
Ozsvath-Szabo invariants of the result of gluing two 4-manifolds along a common
boundary, which is phrased in terms of relative invariants of the pieces. These
relative invariants take values in a version of Heegaard Floer homology with
coefficients in modules over certain Novikov rings; the fiber sum formula
follows from the theorem that this "perturbed" version of Heegaard Floer theory
recovers the usual Ozsvath-Szabo invariants, when the 4-manifold in question
has b^+>1. The construction allows an extension of the definition of the
Ozsvath-Szabo invariants to 4-manifolds having b^+ = 1 depending on certain
choices, in close analogy with Seiberg-Witten theory. The product formulae lead
quickly to calculations of the Ozsvath-Szabo invariants of various 4-manifolds;
in all cases the results are in accord with the conjectured equivalence between
the Ozsvath-Szabo and Seiberg-Witten invariants.
  A class of discrete renewal processes with super-exponentially decaying
inter-arrival distributions coincides with the infinite volume limit of general
homogeneous pinning models in their localized phase. Pinning models are
statistical mechanics systems to which a lot of attention has been devoted both
for their relevance for applications and because they are solvable models
exhibiting a non-trivial phase transition. The spatial decay of correlations in
these systems is directly mapped to the speed of convergence to equilibrium for
the associated renewal processes. We show that close to criticality, under
general assumptions, the correlation decay rate, or the renewal convergence
rate, coincides with the inter-arrival decay rate. We also show that, in
general, this is false away from criticality. Under a stronger assumption on
the inter-arrival distribution we establish a local limit theorem, capturing
thus the sharp asymptotic behavior of correlations.
  The Stieltjes constants gamma_k(a) are the expansion coefficients in the
Laurent series for the Hurwitz zeta function about its only pole at s=1. We
present the relation of gamma_k(1) to the eta_j coefficients that appear in the
Laurent expansion of the logarithmic derivative of the Riemann zeta function
about its pole at s=1. We obtain novel integral representations of the
Stieltjes constants and new decompositions such as S_2(n) = S_gamma(n) +
S_Lambda(n) for the crucial oscillatory subsum of the Li criterion for the
Riemann hypothesis. The sum S_\gamma(n) is O(n) and we present various integral
representations for it. We present novel series representations of S_2(n). We
additionally present a rapidly convergent expression for \gamma_k= \gamma_k(1)
and a variety of results pertinent to a parameterized representation of the
Riemann and Hurwitz zeta functions.
  We present a variety of series representations of the Stieltjes and related
constants, the Stieltjes constants being the coefficients of the Laurent
expansion of the Hurwitz zeta function zeta(s,a) about s=1. Additionally we
obtain series and integral representations of a sum S_\gamma(n) formed as an
alternating binomial series from the Stieltjes constants. The slowly varying
sum S_\gamma(n)+n is an important subsum in application of the Li criterion for
the Riemann hypothesis.
  Let $p(w)=(w-w_{1})(w-w_{2})(w-w_{3}),$with
$\func{Re}w_{1}<\func{Re}w_{2}<\func{Re}w_{3}$. Assume that if the critical
points of $p$ are not identical, then they cannot have equal real parts. Define
the ratios $\sigma_{1}=\dfrac{z_{1}-w_{1}}{w_{2}-w_{1}}$ and $\sigma
_{2}=\dfrac{z_{2}-w_{2}}{w_{3}-w_{2}}$. $(\sigma_{1},\sigma_{2})$ is called the
\QTR{it}{ratio vector} of $p$. This extends the definition of ratio vectors
given in earlier papers for polynomials of degree $n$ with all real roots. We
then derive bounds on the real part, imaginary part, and modulus of the ratios
and also some relations between the ratios. In particular, we prove that
$\func{Re}\sigma_{1}\leq \func{Re}\sigma_{2}$. We also show that the ratios are
real if and only if the roots of $p$ are collinear.
  A Chevalley type integral basis for the ortho-symplectic Lie superalgebra is
constructed. The simple modules of the ortho-symplectic supergroup over an
algebraically closed field of prime characteristic not equal to 2 are
classified, where a key combinatorial ingredient comes from the Mullineux
conjecture on modular representations of the symmetric group. A Steinberg
tensor product theorem for the ortho-symplectic supergroup is also obtained.
  We describe an expansion of the solution of the wave equation in the De
Sitter - Schwarzschild metric in terms of resonances. The main term in the
expansion is due to a zero resonance. The error term decays polynomially if we
permit a logarithmic derivative loss in the angular directions and
exponentially if we permit an small derivative loss in the angular directions.
  We classify in this paper Poisson structures on modules over semisimple Lie
algebras arising from classical r-matrices. We then study their quantizations
and the relation to classical invariant theory.
  In this note, we develop transformation formulae and expansions for the log
tangent integral, which are then used to derive series acceleration formulae
for certain values of Dirichlet L-functions, such as Catalan's constant. The
formulae are characterized by the presence of an infinite series whose general
term consists of a linear recurrence damped by the central binomial coefficient
and a certain quadratic polynomial. Typically, the series can be expressed in
closed form as a rational linear combination of Catalan's constant and pi times
the logarithm of an algebraic unit.
  The purpose of this article is to present some result which may characterize
nontrivial zeros of the Riemann zeta-function off the critical line
$\text{Re}(s) = 1/2$, if any exists. In brief, it concerns the residues of the
poles of the function $M(s, q) \equiv \sum_{n \geq 1} \Lambda(n) e^{- 2\pi i q
n } n^{-s}$, where $\Lambda$ is the arithmetical Mangoldt $\Lambda$-function.
Suppose that $M(s, 1/2)$ has a pole for some complex number $\rho_{*}$, with
$\text{Re}(\rho_{*}) > 1/2$. Then we discuss a certain continuity property of
the residues of the poles of $M(\rho_{*}, q)$ with respect to the variable $q
\in \mathbb{Q} \cap (1/2, 1)$.
  It has hitherto been known that in a transitive unimodular graph, each tree
in the wired spanning forest has only one end a.s. We dispense with the
assumptions of transitivity and unimodularity, replacing them with a much
broader condition on the isoperimetric profile that requires just slightly more
than uniform transience.
  A spectral average which generalises the local spacing distribution of the
eigenvalues of random $ N\times N $ hermitian matrices in the bulk of their
spectrum as $ N\to\infty $ is known to be a $\tau$-function of the fifth
Painlev\'e system. This $\tau$-function, $ \tau(s) $, has generic parameters
and is transcendental but is characterised by particular boundary conditions
about the singular point $s=0$, which we determine here. When the average
reduces to the local spacing distribution we find that $\tau$-function is of
the separatrix, or partially truncated type.
  Consider a projective limit G of finite groups G_n. Fix a compatible family
\delta^n of coactions of the G_n on a C*-algebra A. From this data we obtain a
coaction \delta of G on A. We show that the coaction crossed product of A by
\delta is isomorphic to a direct limit of the coaction crossed products of A by
the \delta^n.
  If A = C*(\Lambda) for some k-graph \Lambda, and if the coactions \delta^n
correspond to skew-products of \Lambda, then we can say more. We prove that the
coaction crossed-product of C*(\Lambda) by \delta may be realised as a full
corner of the C*-algebra of a (k+1)-graph. We then explore connections with
Yeend's topological higher-rank graphs and their C*-algebras.
  A formula for the radii and positions of four circles in the plane for an
arbitrary linearly independent circle configuration is found. Among special
cases is the recent extended Descartes Theorem on the Descartes configuration
and an analytic solution to the Apollonian problem. The general theorem for
n-spheres is also considered.
  We consider possible generation of singularities of a vector field
transported by diffeomorphisms with derivatives of uniformly bounded
determinants. A particular case of volume preserving diffeomrphism is the most
important, since it has direct applications to the incompressible, inviscid
hydrodynamics. We find relations between the directions of the vector field and
the eigenvectors of the derivative of the back-to-label map near the
singularity. We also find an invariant when we follow the motion of the
integral curves of the vector field. For the 3D Euler equations these results
have immediate implications about the directions of the vortex stretching and
the material stretching near the possible singularities. We also have similar
applications to the other inviscid, incompressible fluid equations such as the
2D quasi-geostrophic equation and the 3D magnetohydrodynamics equations.
  In this paper, we study the deformations of Kolyvagin systems that are known
to exist in a wide variety of cases, by the work of B. Howard, B. Mazur, and K.
Rubin for the residual Galois representations, along the cyclotomic Iwasawa
algebra. We prove, under certain technical hypotheses, that a cyclotomic
deformation of a Kolyvagin system exists. We also briefly discuss how our
techniques could be extended to prove that one could deform Kolyvagin systems
for other deformations as well.
  We discuss several applications of this result, particularly relation of
these $\Lambda$-adic Kolyvagin systems to p-adic L-functions (in view of the
conjectures of Perrin-Riou on p-adic L-functions) and applications to main
conjectures; also applications to the study of Iwasawa theory of Rubin-Stark
units.
  We consider 5-manifolds with a contact form arising from a hypo structure,
which we call \emph{hypo-contact}. We provide conditions which imply that there
exists such a structure on an oriented hypersurface of a 6-manifold with a
half-flat SU(3)-structure. For half-flat manifolds with a Killing vector field
$X$ preserving the SU(3)-structure we study the geometry of the orbits space.
Moreover, we describe the solvable Lie algebras admitting a \emph{hypo-contact}
structure. This allows us exhibit examples of Sasakian $\eta$-Einstein
manifolds, as well as to prove that such structures give rise to new metrics
with holonomy SU(3) and to new metrics with holonomy $G_2$.
  Properties of the Cauchy-Riemann-Fueter equation for maps between
quaternionic manifolds are studied. Spaces of solutions in case of maps from a
K3-surface to the cotangent bundle of a complex projective space are computed.
A relationship between harmonic spinors of a generalized nonlinear Dirac
operator and solutions of the Cauchy-Riemann-Fueter equation are established.
  We compute the Hilbert coefficients of a graded module with pure resolution
and discuss lower and upper bounds for these coefficients for arbitrary graded
modules.
  Many processes must complete in the presence of failures. Different systems
respond to task failure in different ways. The system may resume a failed task
from the failure point (or a saved checkpoint shortly before the failure
point), it may give up on the task and select a replacement task from the ready
queue, or it may restart the task. The behavior of systems under the first two
scenarios is well documented, but the third ({\em RESTART}) has resisted
detailed analysis. In this paper we derive tight asymptotic relations between
the distribution of {\em task times} without failures to the {\em total time}
when including failures, for any failure distribution. In particular, we show
that if the task time distribution has an unbounded support then the total time
distribution $H$ is always heavy-tailed. Asymptotic expressions are given for
the tail of $H$ in various scenarios. The key ingredients of the analysis are
the Cram\'er--Lundberg asymptotics for geometric sums and integral asymptotics,
that in some cases are obtained via Tauberian theorems and in some cases by
bare-hand calculations.
  Among other things, we prove that the group of automorphisms fixing every
normal subgroup of a nilpotent-by-abelian group is nilpotent-by-metabelian. In
particular, the group of automorphisms fixing every normal subgroup of a
metabelian group is soluble of derived length at most 3. An example shows that
this bound cannot be improved.
  We prove that bounded harmonic functions of anisotropic fractional Laplacians
are H\"older continuous under mild regularity assumptions on the corresponding
L\'evy measure. Under some stronger assumptions the Green function, Poisson
kernel and the harmonic functions are even differentiable of order up to three.
  This paper is a continuation of a previous paper by the same authors, where
an analytic smoothing effect was proved for long-range type perturbations of
the Laplacian $H_0$ on $\re^n$. In this paper, we consider short-range type
perturbations $H$ of the Laplacian on $\re^n$, and we characterize the analytic
wave front set of the solution to the Schr\"odinger equation:
  $e^{-itH}f$, in terms of that of the free solution: $e^{-itH_0}f$, for $t<0$
in the forward nontrapping region. The same result holds for $t>0$ in the
backward nontrapping region. This result is an analytic analogue of results by
Hassel and Wunsch and Nakamura.
  We determine the -1 Tate cohomology group of the units for principal abelian
extensions of type (p^a, p^b) of a number field.
  We study the Ricci flow for initial metrics which are C^0 small perturbations
of the Euclidean metric on R^n. In the case that this metric is asymptotically
Euclidean, we show that a Ricci harmonic map heat flow exists for all times,
and converges uniformly to the Euclidean metric as time approaches infinity. In
proving this stability result, we introduce a monotone integral quantity which
measures the deviation of the evolving metric from the Euclidean metric. We
also investigate the convergence of the diffeomorphisms relating Ricci harmonic
map heat flow to Ricci flow.
  Starting from the basic-exponential, a q-deformed version of the exponential
function established in the framework of the basic-hypergeometric series, we
present a possible formulation of a generalized statistical mechanics. In a
q-nonuniform lattice we introduce the basic-entropy related to the
basic-exponential by means of a q-variational principle. Remarkably, this
distribution exhibits a natural cut-off in the energy spectrum. This fact,
already encountered in other formulations of generalized statistical mechanics,
is expected to be relevant to the applications of the theory to those systems
governed by long-range interactions. By employing the q-calculus, it is shown
that the standard thermodynamic functional relationships are preserved,
mimicking, in this way, the mathematical structure of the ordinary
thermostatistics which is recovered in the q=1 limit.
  This article deals with a viscoplastic material model of overstress type. The
model is based on a multiplicative decomposition of the deformation gradient
into elastic and inelastic part. An additional multiplicative decomposition of
inelastic part is used to describe a nonlinear kinematic hardening of
Armstrong-Frederick type.
  Two implicit time-stepping methods are adopted for numerical integration of
evolution equations, such that the plastic incompressibility constraint is
exactly satisfied. The first method is based on the tensor exponential. The
second method is a modified Euler-Backward method. Special numerical tests show
that both approaches yield similar results even for finite inelastic
increments.
  The basic features of the material response, predicted by the material model,
are illustrated with a series of numerical simulations.
  A set of integers is $S$-recognizable in an abstract numeration system $S$ if
the language made up of the representations of its elements is accepted by a
finite automaton. For abstract numeration systems built over bounded languages
with at least three letters, we show that multiplication by an integer
$\lambda\ge2$ does not preserve $S$-recognizability, meaning that there always
exists a $S$-recognizable set $X$ such that $\lambda X$ is not
$S$-recognizable. The main tool is a bijection between the representation of an
integer over a bounded language and its decomposition as a sum of binomial
coefficients with certain properties, the so-called combinatorial numeration
system.
  The aim of this work is to study the numerical solution of the nonlinear
Schrodinger problem using a combination between Witt basis and finite
difference approximations. We construct a discrete fundamental solution for the
non-stationary Schrodinger operator and we show the convergence of the
numerical scheme. Numerical examples are given at the end of the paper.
  We characterize the Carleson measures for the Drury-Arveson Hardy space and
other Hilbert spaces of analytic functions of several complex variables. This
provides sharp estimates for Drury's generalization of Von Neumann's
inequality. The characterization is in terms of a geometric condition, the
"split tree condition", which reflects the nonisotropic geometry underlying the
Drury-Arveson Hardy space.
  We carry out an extensive investigation of conservation laws and potential
symmetries for the class of linear (1+1)-dimensional second-order parabolic
equations. The group classification of this class is revised by employing
admissible transformations, the notion of normalized classes of differential
equations and the adjoint variational principle. All possible potential
conservation laws are described completely. They are in fact exhausted by local
conservation laws. For any equation from the above class the characteristic
space of local conservation laws is isomorphic to the solution set of the
adjoint equation. Effective criteria for the existence of potential symmetries
are proposed. Their proofs involve a rather intricate interplay between
different representations of potential systems, the notion of a potential
equation associated with a tuple of characteristics, prolongation of the
equivalence group to the whole potential frame and application of multiple dual
Darboux transformations. Based on the tools developed, a preliminary analysis
of generalized potential symmetries is carried out and then applied to
substantiate our construction of potential systems. The simplest potential
symmetries of the linear heat equation, which are associated with single
conservation laws, are classified with respect to its point symmetry group.
Equations possessing infinite series of potential symmetry algebras are studied
in detail.
  Nous \'etudions la non lin\'earit\'e des fonctions d\'efinies sur F_{2^m}
o\`u $m$ est un entier impair, associ\'ees aux polyn\^omes de degr\'e 7 ou \`a
des polyn\^omes plus g\'en\'eraux.
  -----
  We study the nonlinearity of the functions defined on F_{2^m} where $m$ is an
odd integer, associated to the polynomials of degree 7 or more general
polynomials.
  Let g_A (respectively, g_A(\mu)) be the graded multi-loop Lie algebra
(respectively graded twisted multi-loop Lie algebra)" associated with the
simple finite dimensional Lie algebra g over the complex field C. In this
paper, we prove that irreducible integrable g_A(\mu)-modules with finite
dimensional weight spaces are either highest weight modules or their duals and
classify the isomorphism classes of irreducible integrable g_A-modules and
g_A(\mu)-modules with finite dimensional weight spaces.
  In this paper we study various fractal geometric aspects of the Minkowski
question mark function $Q.$ We show that the unit interval can be written as
the union of the three sets $\Lambda_{0}:=\{x:Q'(x)=0\}$,
$\Lambda_{\infty}:=\{x:Q'(x)=\infty\}$, and $\Lambda_{\sim}:=\{x:Q'(x)$ does
not exist and $Q'(x)\not=\infty\}.$ The main result is that the Hausdorff
dimensions of these sets are related in the following way.
$\dim_{H}(\nu_{F})<\dim_{H}(\Lambda_{\sim})= \dim_{H} (\Lambda_{\infty}) =
\dim_{H} (\mathcal{L}(h_{\mathrm{top}}))<\dim_{H}(\Lambda_{0})=1.$
  Here, $\mathcal{L}(h_{\mathrm{top}})$ refers to the level set of the
  Stern-Brocot multifractal decomposition at the topological entropy
  $h_{\mathrm{top}}=\log2$ of the Farey map $F,$ and $\dim_{H}(\nu_{F})$
denotes the Hausdorff dimension of the measure of maximal entropy of the
dynamical system associated with $F.$ The proofs rely partially on the
multifractal formalism for Stern-Brocot intervals and give non-trivial
applications of this formalism.
  Associated to each subset $J$ of the nodes $I$ of a Dynkin diagram is a
triangular decomposition of the corresponding Lie algebra $\mathfrak{g}$ into
three subalgebras $\widetilde{\mathfrak{g}_{J}}$ (generated by $e_{j}$, $f_{j}$
for $j\in J$ and $h_{i}$ for $i\in I$), $\mathfrak{n}^{-}_{D}$ (generated by
$f_{d}$, $d\in D=I\setminus J$) and its dual $\mathfrak{n}_{D}^{+}$.
  We demonstrate a quantum counterpart, generalising work of Majid and Rosso,
by exhibiting analogous triangular decompositions of $U_{q}(\mathfrak{g})$ and
identifying a graded braided Hopf algebra that quantizes
$\mathfrak{n}_{D}^{-}$. This algebra has many similar properties to
$U_{q}^{-}(\mathfrak{g})$, in many cases being a Nichols algebra and therefore
completely determined by its associated braiding.
  This survey paper describes two geometric representations of the permutation
group using the tools of toric topology. These actions are extremely useful for
computational problems in Schubert calculus. The (torus) equivariant cohomology
of the flag variety is constructed using the combinatorial description of
Goresky-Kottwitz-MacPherson, discussed in detail. Two permutation
representations on equivariant and ordinary cohomology are identified in terms
of irreducible representations of the permutation group. We show how to use the
permutation actions to construct divided difference operators and to give
formulas for some localizations of certain equivariant classes.
  This paper includes several new results, in particular a new proof of the
Chevalley-Monk formula and a proof that one of the natural permutation
representations on the equivariant cohomology of the flag variety is the
regular representation. Many examples, exercises, and open questions are
provided.
  Existence of stochastic financial equilibria giving rise to semimartingale
asset prices is established under a general class of assumptions. These
equilibria are expressed in real terms and span complete markets or markets
with withdrawal constraints.We deal with random endowment density streams which
admit jumps and general time-dependent utility functions on which only
regularity conditions are imposed. As an integral part of the proof of the main
result, we establish a novel characterization of semimartingale functions.
  We prove that Jordan triple elementary surjective maps on unital rings
containing a nontrivial idempotent are automatically additive.
  This paper provides a new version of the condition of Di Nunno et al. (2003),
Ankirchner and Imkeller (2005) and Biagini and \{O}ksendal (2005) ensuring the
semimartingale property for a large class of continuous stochastic processes.
Unlike our predecessors, we base our modeling framework on the concept of
portfolio proportions which yields a short self-contained proof of the main
theorem, as well as a counterexample, showing that analogues of our results do
not hold in the discontinuous setting.
  Let p be a prime number, F a totally real field such that [F(mu_p): F]=2 and
[F:Q] is odd. For delta \in F^times, let [delta] denote its class in
F^times/F^{times p}. In this paper, we show
  Main Theorem. There are infinitely many classes [delta]\in F^times/F^{times
p} such that the twisted affine Fermat curves W_delta: X^p+Y^p=delta have no
F-rational points.
  The effectiveness of utility-maximization techniques for portfolio management
relies on our ability to estimate correctly the parameters of the dynamics of
the underlying financial assets. In the setting of complete or incomplete
financial markets, we investigate whether small perturbations of the market
coefficient processes lead to small changes in the agent's optimal behavior
derived from the solution of the related utility-maximization problems.
Specifically, we identify the topologies on the parameter process space and the
solution space under which utility-maximization is a continuous operation, and
we provide a counterexample showing that our results are best possible, in a
certain sense. A novel result about the structure of the solution of the
utility-maximization problem where prices are modeled by continuous
semimartingales is established as an offshoot of the proof of our central
theorem.
  This paper studies the problem of maximizing the expected utility of terminal
wealth for a financial agent with an unbounded random endowment, and with a
utility function which supports both positive and negative wealth. We prove the
existence of an optimal trading strategy within a class of permissible
strategies -- those strategies whose wealth process is a supermartingale under
all pricing measures with finite relative entropy. We give necessary and
sufficient conditions for the absence of utility-based arbitrage, and for the
existence of a solution to the primal problem.
  We consider two utility-based methods which can be used to price contingent
claims. Firstly we investigate marginal utility-based price processes
(MUBPP's). We show that such processes can be characterized as local
martingales under the normalized optimal dual measure for the utility
maximizing investor. Finally, we present some new results on utility
indifference prices, including continuity properties and volume asymptotics for
the case of a general utility function, unbounded endowment and unbounded
contingent claims.
  We investigate the ergodic problem of growth-rate maximization under a class
of risk constraints in the context of incomplete, It\^{o}-process models of
financial markets with random ergodic coefficients. Including {\em
value-at-risk} (VaR), {\em tail-value-at-risk} (TVaR), and {\em limited
expected loss} (LEL), these constraints can be both wealth-dependent(relative)
and wealth-independent (absolute). The optimal policy is shown to exist in an
appropriate admissibility class, and can be obtained explicitly by uniform,
state-dependent scaling down of the unconstrained (Merton) optimal portfolio.
This implies that the risk-constrained wealth-growth optimizer locally behaves
like a CRRA-investor, with the relative risk-aversion coefficient depending on
the current values of the market coefficients.
  Quantum networks are often modelled using Schroedinger operators on metric
graphs. To give meaning to such models one has to know how to interpret the
boundary conditions which match the wave functions at the graph vertices. In
this article we give a survey, technically not too heavy, of several recent
results which serve this purpose. Specifically, we consider approximations by
means of ``fat graphs'' -- in other words, suitable families of shrinking
manifolds -- and discuss convergence of the spectra and resonances in such a
setting.
  We perform a stability analysis for the utility maximization problem in a
general semimartingale model where both liquid and illiquid assets (random
endowments) are present. Small misspecifications of preferences (as modeled via
expected utility), as well as views of the world or the market model (as
modeled via subjective probabilities) are considered. Simple sufficient
conditions are given for the problem to be well-posed, in the sense the optimal
wealth and the marginal utility-based prices are continuous functionals of
preferences and probabilistic views.
  We study a model theoretic context (finite thorn rank, NIP, with finitely
satisfiable generics) which is a common generalization of groups of finite
Morley rank and definably compact groups in o-minimal structures. We show that
assuming thorn rank 1, the group is abelian-by-finite, and assuming thorn rank
2 the group is solvable by finite. Also a field is algebraically closed.
  We prove that Jordan elementary surjective maps on rings are automatically
additive.
  We show that the Glauber dynamics on proper 9-colourings of the triangular
lattice is rapidly mixing, which allows for efficient sampling. Consequently,
there is a fully polynomial randomised approximation scheme (FPRAS) for
counting proper 9-colourings of the triangular lattice. Proper colourings
correspond to configurations in the zero-temperature anti-ferromagnetic Potts
model. We show that the spin system consisting of proper 9-colourings of the
triangular lattice has strong spatial mixing. This implies that there is a
unique infinite-volume Gibbs distribution, which is an important property
studied in statistical physics. Our results build on previous work by Goldberg,
Martin and Paterson, who showed similar results for 10 colours on the
triangular lattice. Their work was preceded by Salas and Sokal's 11-colour
result. Both proofs rely on computational assistance, and so does our 9-colour
proof. We have used a randomised heuristic to guide us towards rigourous
results.
  We prove in this paper that for a quasi-compact and semi-separated (non
necessarily noetherian) scheme X, the derived category of quasi-coherent
sheaves over X, D(A_qc(X)), is a stable homotopy category in the sense of
Hovey, Palmieri and Strickland, answering a question posed by Strickland.
Moreover we show that it is unital and algebraic. We also prove that for a
noetherian semi-separated formal scheme X, its derived category of sheaves of
modules with quasi-coherent torsion homologies D_qct(X) is a stable homotopy
category. It is algebraic but if the formal scheme is not a usual scheme, it is
not unital, therefore its abstract nature differs essentially from that of the
derived category of a usual scheme.
  This document contains notes from the lectures of Corti, Koll\'ar,
Lazarsfeld, and Musta\c{t}\u{a} at the workshop ``Minimal and canonical models
in algebraic geometry" at MSRI, Berkeley, April 2007. The lectures give an
overview of the recent advances on canonical and minimal models of algebraic
varieties obtained by Hacon--McKernan and Birkar--Cascini--Hacon--McKernan.
  We establish central and local limit theorems for the number of vertices in
the largest component of a random $d$-uniform hypergraph $\hnp$ with edge
probability $p=c/\binnd$, where $(d-1)^{-1}+\eps<c<\infty$. The proof relies on
a new, purely probabilistic approach, and is based on Stein's method as well as
exposing the edges of $H_d(n,p)$ in several rounds.
  Let $H_d(n,p)$ signify a random $d$-uniform hypergraph with $n$ vertices in
which each of the ${n}\choose{d}$ possible edges is present with probability
$p=p(n)$ independently, and let $H_d(n,m)$ denote a uniformly distributed with
$n$ vertices and $m$ edges. We derive local limit theorems for the joint
distribution of the number of vertices and the number of edges in the largest
component of $H_d(n,p)$ and $H_d(n,m)$ for the regime ${{n-1}\choose{d-1}}
p,dm/n >(d-1)^{-1}+\epsilon$. As an application, we obtain an asymptotic
formula for the probability that $H_d(n,p)$ or $H_d(n,m)$ is connected. In
addition, we infer a local limit theorem for the conditional distribution of
the number of edges in $H_d(n,p)$ given connectivity. While most prior work on
this subject relies on techniques from enumerative combinatorics, we present a
new, purely probabilistic approach.
  Multivariate statistics are often available as well as necessary in
hypothesis tests. We study how to use such statistics to control not only false
discovery rate (FDR) but also positive FDR (pFDR) with good power. We show that
FDR can be controlled through nested regions of multivariate $p$-values of test
statistics. If the distributions of the test statistics are known, then the
regions can be constructed explicitly to achieve FDR control with maximum power
among procedures satisfying certain conditions. On the other hand, our focus is
where the distributions are only partially known. Under certain conditions, a
type of nested regions are proposed and shown to attain (p)FDR control with
asymptotically maximum power as the pFDR control level approaches its
attainable limit. The procedure based on the nested regions is compared with
those based on other nested regions that are easier to construct as well as
those based on more straightforward combinations of the test statistics.
  We classify complactly generated t-structures on the derived category of
modules over a commutative Noetherian ring R in terms of decreasing filtrations
by supports on Spec(R). A decreasing filtration by supports \phi : Z -> Spec(R)
satisfies the weak Cousin condition if for any integer i \in Z, the set \phi(i)
contains all the inmediate generalizations of each point in \phi(i+1). Every
t-structure on D^b_fg(R) (equivalently, on D^-_fg(R)) is induced by complactly
generated t-structures on D(R) whose associated filtrations by supports satisfy
the weak Cousin condition. If the ring R has dualizing complex we prove that
these are exactly the t-structures on D^b_fg(R). More generally, if R has a
pointwise dualizing complex we classify all compactly generated t-structures on
D_fg(R).
  In this note, we prove that on polarized toric manifolds the relative
$K$-stability with respect to Donaldson's toric degenerations is a necessary
condition for the existence of Calabi's extremal metrics, and also we show that
the modified $K$-energy is proper in the space of $G_0$-invariant K\"ahler
metrics for the case of toric surfaces which admit the extremal metrics.
  We offer a solution to the long-standing problem of group completing within
the context of rig categories (also known as bimonoidal categories). Given a
rig category R we construct a natural additive group completion R' that retains
the multiplicative structure, hence has become a ring category. If we start
with a commutative rig category R (also known as a symmetric bimonoidal
category), the additive group completion R' will be a commutative ring
category. In an accompanying paper we show how this can be used to prove the
conjecture from [BDR] that the algebraic K-theory of the connective topological
K-theory spectrum ku is equivalent to the algebraic K-theory of the rig
category V of complex vector spaces.
  Recent research has studied the role of sparsity in high dimensional
regression and signal reconstruction, establishing theoretical limits for
recovering sparse models from sparse data. This line of work shows that
$\ell_1$-regularized least squares regression can accurately estimate a sparse
linear model from $n$ noisy examples in $p$ dimensions, even if $p$ is much
larger than $n$. In this paper we study a variant of this problem where the
original $n$ input variables are compressed by a random linear transformation
to $m \ll n$ examples in $p$ dimensions, and establish conditions under which a
sparse linear model can be successfully recovered from the compressed data. A
primary motivation for this compression procedure is to anonymize the data and
preserve privacy by revealing little information about the original data. We
characterize the number of random projections that are required for
$\ell_1$-regularized compressed regression to identify the nonzero coefficients
in the true model with probability approaching one, a property called
``sparsistence.'' In addition, we show that $\ell_1$-regularized compressed
regression asymptotically predicts as well as an oracle linear model, a
property called ``persistence.'' Finally, we characterize the privacy
properties of the compression procedure in information-theoretic terms,
establishing upper bounds on the mutual information between the compressed and
uncompressed data that decay to zero.
  In this paper we present a new method to show that a principal homogeneous
space of the Jacobian of a curve of genus two is nontrivial. The idea is to
exhibit a Brauer-Manin obstruction to the existence of rational points on a
quotient of this principal homogeneous space. In an explicit example we apply
the method to show that a specific curve has infinitely many quadratic twists
whose Jacobians have nontrivial Tate-Shafarevich group.
  In this article we study global-in-time Strichartz estimates for the
Schr\"odinger evolution corresponding to long-range perturbations of the
Euclidean Laplacian. This is a natural continuation of a recent article of the
third author, where it is proved that local smoothing estimates imply
Strichartz estimates. In the aforementioned paper, the third author proved the
local smoothing estimates for small perturbations of the Laplacian. Here we
consider the case of large perturbations in three increasingly favorable
scenarios: (i) without non-trapping assumptions we prove estimates outside a
compact set modulo a lower order spatially localized error term, (ii) with
non-trapping assumptions we prove global estimates modulo a lower order
spatially localized error term, and (iii) for time independent operators with
no resonance or eigenvalue at the bottom of the spectrum we prove global
estimates for the projection onto the continuous spectrum.
  We show that an infinite weighted tree admits a bi-Lipschitz embedding into
Hilbert space if and only if it does not contain arbitrarily large complete
binary trees with uniformly bounded distortion. We also introduce a new metric
invariant called Markov convexity, and show how it can be used to compute the
Euclidean distortion of any metric tree up to universal factors.
  We give some new bounds for the clique and independence numbers of a graph in
terms of its eigenvalues.
  These are expanded lecture notes of a series of expository talks surveying
basic aspects of group cohomology and homology. They were written for someone
who has had a first course in graduate algebra but no background in cohomology.
You should know the definition of a (left) module over a (non-commutative)
ring, what $\zzz[G]$ is (where $G$ is a group written multiplicatively and
$\zzz$ denotes the integers), and some ring theory and group theory. However,
an attempt has been made to (a) keep the presentation as simple as possible,
(b) either provide an explicit reference of proof of everything.
  Several computer algebra packages are used to illustrate the computations,
though for various reasons we have focused on the free, open source packages
such as GAP and SAGE.
  Given any $1 < q \le 2$, we use new free probability techniques to construct
a completely isomorphic embedding of $\ell_q$ (equipped with its natural
operator space structure) into the predual of a sufficiently large QWEP von
Neumann algebra.
  In this paper we deal with a family of non--standard polynomials orthogonal
with respect to an inner product involving differences. This type of inner
product is the so--called $\Delta$--Sobolev inner product. Concretely, we
consider the case in which both measures appearing in the inner product
correspond to the Pascal distribution (the orthogonal polynomials associated to
this distribution are known as Meixner polynomials). The aim of this work is to
obtain a generating function for the $\Delta$--Meixner--Sobolev orthogonal
polynomials and, by using a limit process, recover a generating function for
Laguerre--Sobolev orthogonal polynomials.
  The main result of this paper is that if $X$ is a Peano continuum such that
its $n$-th cone $C^n(X)$ embeds into $\RR^{n+2}$ then $X$ embeds into $S^2$.
This solves a problem proposed by W. Rosicki.
  In this paper, we consider systems that can be modelled by $M \mid M \mid n$
queues with heterogeneous servers and non informed customers. Considering any
two servers: we show that the probability that the fastest server is busy is
smaller than the probability that the slowest server is busy. Moreover, we show
that the effective rate of service done by the fastest server is larger than
effective rate of service done by the slowest server.
  The software TrIm offers implementations of tropical implicitization and
tropical elimination, as developed by Tevelev and the authors. Given a
polynomial map with generic coefficients, TrIm computes the tropical variety of
the image. When the image is a hypersurface, the output is the Newton polytope
of the defining polynomial. TrIm can thus be used to compute mixed fiber
polytopes, including secondary polytopes.
  In this paper, we study open complete metric spaces with non-negative
curvature. Among other things, we establish an extension of Perelman's soul
theorem for possibly singular spaces: "Let X be a complete, non-compact, finite
dimensional Alexandrov space with non-negative curvature. Suppose that X has no
boundary and has positive curvature on a non-empty open subset. Then X must be
a contractible space". The proof of this result uses the detailed analysis of
concavity of distance functions and Busemann functions on singular spaces with
non-negative curvature. We will introduce a family of angular excess functions
to measure convexity and extrinsic curvature of convex hypersurfaces in
singular spaces. We also derive a new comparison for trapezoids in
non-negatively curved spaces, which led to desired convexity estimates for the
proof of our new soul theorem.
  Given a correspondence between a modular curve and an elliptic curve A we
study the group of relations among the CM points of A. In particular we prove
that the intersection of any finite rank subgroup of A with the set of CM
points of A is finite. We also prove a local version of this global result with
an effective bound valid also for certain infinite rank subgroups. We deduce
the local result from a ``reciprocity'' theorem for CL (canonical lift) points
on A. Furthermore we prove similar global and local results for intersections
between subgroups of A and isogeny classes in A. Finally we prove Shimura curve
analogues and, in some cases, higher-dimensional versions of these results.
  The notion of relative cuspidality for distinguished representations attached
to $p$-adic symmetric spaces is introduced. A characterization of relative
cuspidality in terms of Jacquet modules is given and a generalization of
Jacquet's subrepresentation theorem to the relative case (symmetric space case)
is established.
  We define the concept of weighted lattice polynomial functions as lattice
polynomial functions constructed from both variables and parameters. We provide
equivalent forms of these functions in an arbitrary bounded distributive
lattice. We also show that these functions include the class of discrete Sugeno
integrals and that they are characterized by a median based decomposition
formula.
  We introduce the notion of numerical (strong) peak function and investigate
the denseness of the norm and numerical peak functions on complex Banach
spaces. Let $A_b(B_X:X)$ be the Banach space of all bounded continuous
functions $f$ on the unit ball $B_X$ of a Banach space $X$ and their
restrictions $f|_{B_X^\circ}$ to the open unit ball are holomorphic. In finite
dimensional spaces, we show that the intersection of the set of all norm peak
functions and the set of all numerical peak functions is a dense $G_\delta$
subset of $A_b(B_X:X)$. We also prove that if $X$ is a smooth Banach space with
the Radon-Nikod\'ym property, then the set of all numerical strong peak
functions is dense in $A_b(B_X:X)$. In particular, when $X=L_p(\mu)$
$(1<p<\infty)$ or $X=\ell_1$, it is shown that the intersection of the set of
all norm strong peak functions and the set of all numerical strong peak
functions is a dense $G_\delta$ subset of $A_b(B_X:X)$.
  In the meanwhile, we study the properties of the numerical radius of an
holomorphic function and the numerical index of subspaces of $A_b(B_X:X)$. As
an application, the existence and properties of numerical boundary of
$A_b(B_X:X)$ are studied. Finally, the numerical peak function in $A_b(B_X:X)$
is characterized when $X=\ell_\infty^n$ and some negative results on the
denseness of numerical (strong) peak holomorphic functions are given.
  Systems of polynomial equations over the complex or real numbers can be used
to model combinatorial problems. In this way, a combinatorial problem is
feasible (e.g. a graph is 3-colorable, hamiltonian, etc.) if and only if a
related system of polynomial equations has a solution. In the first part of
this paper, we construct new polynomial encodings for the problems of finding
in a graph its longest cycle, the largest planar subgraph, the edge-chromatic
number, or the largest k-colorable subgraph.
  For an infeasible polynomial system, the (complex) Hilbert Nullstellensatz
gives a certificate that the associated combinatorial problem is infeasible.
Thus, unless P = NP, there must exist an infinite sequence of infeasible
instances of each hard combinatorial problem for which the minimum degree of a
Hilbert Nullstellensatz certificate of the associated polynomial system grows.
  We show that the minimum-degree of a Nullstellensatz certificate for the
non-existence of a stable set of size greater than the stability number of the
graph is the stability number of the graph. Moreover, such a certificate
contains at least one term per stable set of G. In contrast, for non-3-
colorability, we found only graphs with Nullstellensatz certificates of degree
four.
  In this paper we will first introduce the notion of affine structures on a
ringed space and then obtain several properties. Affine structures on a ringed
space, arising mainly from complex analytical spaces of algebraic schemes over
number fields, behave like differential structures on a smooth manifold.
  As one does for differential manifolds, we will use pseudogroups of affine
transformations to define affine atlases on a ringed space. An atlas on a space
is said to be an affine structure if it is maximal. An affine structure is
admissible if there is a sheaf on the underlying space such that they are
coincide on all affine charts, which are in deed affine open sets of a scheme.
In a rigour manner, a scheme is defined to be a ringed space with a specified
affine structure if the affine structures are in action in some special cases
such as analytical spaces of algebraic schemes. Particularly, by the whole of
affine structures on a space, we will obtain respectively necessary and
sufficient conditions that two spaces are homeomorphic and that two schemes are
isomorphic, which are the two main theorems of the paper. It follows that the
whole of affine structures on a space and a scheme, as local data, encode and
reflect the global properties of the space and the scheme, respectively.
  We prove that any mapping class on a compact oriented surface with nonempty
boundary can be made pseudo-Anosov and right-veering after a sequence of
positive stabilizations.
  Let F be a field and A a free associative F-algebra or a group algebra of a
free group with an infinite set X of generators. We find a necessary and
sufficient condition for the inclusion I' into I, where I=I_1...I_k and
I'=I'_1...I'_l are any products of T-ideals in A. A canonical reformulation in
terms of products of group representation varieties answers a question posed in
1986
  Let $X$ be a smooth projective curve of genus $g\geq 2$ over the complex
numbers. A holomorphic triple $(E_1,E_2,\phi)$ on $X$ consists of two
holomorphic vector bundles $E_1$ and $E_2$ over $X$ and a holomorphic map
$\phi:E_2 \to E_1$. There is a concept of stability for triples which depends
on a real parameter $\sigma$. In this paper, we determine the Hodge polynomials
of the moduli spaces of $\sigma$-stable triples with $\rk(E_1)=3$,
$\rk(E_2)=1$, using the theory of mixed Hodge structures. This gives in
particular the Poincar\'e polynomials of these moduli spaces. As a byproduct,
we recover the Hodge polynomial of the moduli space of odd degree rank 3 stable
vector bundles.
  The paper contains a simple approach to reconstruction in Thermoacoustic and
Photoacoustic Tomography. The technique works for any geometry of point
detectors placement and for variable sound speed satisfying a non-trapping
condition. A uniqueness of reconstruction result is also obtained.
  We define "fat" train tracks and use them to give a combinatorial criterion
for the Hempel distance of Heegaard splittings for closed orientable
3-manifolds. We apply this criterion to 3-manifolds obtained from surgery on
knots in the three sphere.
  In a previous paper we obtained formulae for the volume of a causal diamond
or Alexandrov open set $I^+(p) \cap I^-(q)$ whose duration $\tau(p,q) $ is
short compared with the curvature scale. In the present paper we obtain
asymptotic formulae valid when the point $q$ recedes to the future boundary
${\cal I}^+$ of an asymptotically de-Sitter spacetime. The volume (at fixed
$\tau$) remains finite in this limit and is given by the universal formula
$V(\tau) = {4\over 3}\pi (2\ln \cosh{\tau\over 2}-\tanh^2{\tau\over 2})$ plus
corrections (given by a series in $e^{-t_q}$) which begin at order $e^{-4t_q}$.
The coefficents of the corrections depend on the geometry of ${\cal I}^+$. This
behaviour is shown to be consistent with the no-hair property of cosmological
event horizons and with calculations of de-Sitter quasinormal modes in the
literature.
  Let G be GL_N or SL_N as reductive linear algebraic group over a field k of
positive characteristic p. We prove several results that were previously
established only when N < 6 or p > 2^N. Let G act rationally on a finitely
generated commutative k-algebra A. Assume that A as a G-module has a good
filtration or a Schur filtration. Let M be a noetherian A-module with
compatible G action. Then M has finite good/Schur filtration dimension, so that
there are at most finitely many nonzero H^i(G,M). Moreover these H^i(G,M) are
noetherian modules over the ring of invariants A^G. Our main tool is a
resolution involving Schur functors of the ideal of the diagonal in a product
of Grassmannians.
  In this paper we consider the space of those probability distributions which
maximize the $q$-R\'enyi entropy. These distributions have the same parameter
space for every $q$, and in the $q=1$ case these are the normal distributions.
Some methods to endow this parameter space with Riemannian metric is presented:
the second derivative of the $q$-R\'enyi entropy, Tsallis-entropy and the
relative entropy give rise to a Riemannian metric, the Fisher-information
matrix is a natural Riemannian metric, and there are some geometrically
motivated metrics which were studied by Siegel, Calvo and Oller, Lovri\'c,
Min-Oo and Ruh. These metrics are different therefore our differential
geometrical calculations based on a unified metric, which covers all the above
mentioned metrics among others. We also compute the geometrical properties of
this metric, the equation of the geodesic line with some special solutions, the
Riemann and Ricci curvature tensors and scalar curvature. Using the
correspondence between the volume of the geodesic ball and the scalar curvature
we show how the parameter $q$ modulates the statistical distinguishability of
close points. We show that some frequently used metric in quantum information
geometry can be easily recovered from classical metrics.
  We consider the specific models of Zhu-Kroemer and BenDaniel-Duke in a
sech$^{2}$-mass background and point out interesting correspondences with the
stationary 1-soliton and 2-soliton solutions of the KdV equation in a
supersymmetric framework.
  This paper has been withdrawn. The authors realized that the obtained results
were not new.
  We extend the inductive approach to the lace expansion, previously developed
to study models with critical dimension 4, to be applicable more generally. In
particular, the result of this note has recently been used to prove Gaussian
asymptotic behaviour for the Fourier transform of the two-point function for
sufficiently spread-out lattice trees in dimensions d>8, and it is potentially
also applicable to percolation in dimensions d>6.
  We consider the algebraic form of a generalized Lame equation with five free
parameters. By introducing a generalization of Jacobi's elliptic functions we
transform this equation to a 1-dim time-independent Schroedinger equation with
(quasi-doubly) periodic potential. We show that only for a finite set of
integral values for the five parameters quasi-doubly periodic eigenfunctions
expressible in terms of generalized Jacobi functions exist. For this purpose we
also establish a relation to the generalized Ince equation.
  We derive a perturbation expansion for general self-interacting random walks,
where steps are made on the basis of the history of the path. Examples of
models where this expansion applies are reinforced random walk, excited random
walk, the true (weakly) self-avoiding walk, loop-erased random walk, and
annealed random walk in random environment.
  In this paper we show that the expansion gives rise to useful formulae for
the speed and variance of the random walk, when these quantities are known to
exist. The results and formulae of this paper have been used elsewhere by the
authors to prove monotonicity properties for the speed (in high dimensions) of
excited random walk and related models, and certain models of random walk in
random environment.
  We also derive a law of large numbers and central limit theorem (with
explicit error terms) directly from this expansion, under strong assumptions on
the expansion coefficients. The assumptions are shown to be satisfied by
excited random walk in high dimensions with small excitation parameter, a model
of reinforced random walk with underlying drift and small reinforcement
parameter, and certain models of random walk in random environment under strong
ellipticity conditions. This is the extended version of the paper, where we
provide all proofs.
  We consider asymptotic behavior of the following fourth order equation \[
\Delta^2 u= \rho \frac{e^{u}}{\int_\Om e^{u} dx} {in} \Om, u= \partial_\nu u=0
{on} \partial \Omega \] where $\Om$ is a smooth oriented bounded domain in
$\R^4$. Assuming that $0<\rho \leq C$, we completely characterize the
asymptotic behavior of the unbounded solutions.
  A d.c. (delta-convex) function on a normed linear space is a function
representable as a difference of two continuous convex functions. We show that
an infinite dimensional analogue of Hartman's theorem on stability of d.c.
functions under compositions does not hold in general. However, we prove that
it holds in some interesting particular cases. Our main results about
compositions are proved in the more general context of d.c. mappings between
normed linear spaces.
  We introduce the notion of "covering homology" of a commutative ring spectrum
with respect to certain families of coverings of topological spaces. The
construction of covering homology is extracted from Bokstedt, Hsiang and
Madsen's topological cyclic homology. In fact covering homology with respect to
the family of orientation preserving isogenies of the circle is equal to
topological cyclic homology.
  Our basic tool for the analysis of covering homology is a cofibration
sequence involving homotopy orbits and a restriction map similar to the
restriction map used in Bokstedt, Hsiang and Madsen's construction of
topological cyclic homology.
  Covering homology with respect to families of isogenies of a torus is
constructed from iterated topological Hochschild homology. It receives a trace
map from iterated algebraic K-theory and the hope is that the rich structure,
and the calculability of covering homology will make covering homology useful
in the exploration of J. Rognes' ``red shift conjecture''.
  The present paper is devoted to estimating the speed of convergence towards
consensus for a general class of discrete-time multi-agent systems. In the
systems considered here, both the topology of the interconnection graph and the
weight of the arcs are allowed to vary as a function of time. Under the
hypothesis that some spanning tree structure is preserved along time, and that
some nonzero minimal weight of the information transfer along this tree is
guaranteed, an estimate of the contraction rate is given. The latter is
expressed explicitly as the spectral radius of some matrix depending upon the
tree depth and the lower bounds on the weights.
  A Hamiltonian action of a complex torus on a symplectic complex manifold is
said to be {\it multiplicity free} if a general orbit is a lagrangian
submanifold. To any multiplicity free Hamiltonian action of a complex torus
$T\cong (\C^\times)^n$ on a Stein manifold $X$ we assign a certain 5-tuple
consisting of a Stein manifold $Y$, an \'{e}tale map $Y\to \t^*$, a set of
divisors on $Y$ and elements of $H^2(Y,\Z)^{\oplus n}, H^2(Y,\C)$. We show that
$X$ is uniquely determined by this invariants. Furthermore, we describe all
5-tuples arising in this way.
  On each nonreflexive Banach space X there exists a positive continuous convex
function f such that 1/f is not a d.c. function (i.e., a difference of two
continuous convex functions). This result together with known ones implies that
X is reflexive if and only if each everywhere defined quotient of two
continuous convex functions is a d.c. function. Our construction gives also a
stronger version of Klee's result concerning renormings of nonreflexive spaces
and non-norm-attaining functionals.
  Let $G$ be a group and let $X$ be a finite subset. The isoperimetric method
investigates the objective function $|(XB)\setminus X|$, defined on the subsets
$X$ with $|X|\ge k$ and $|G\setminus (XB)|\ge k$. A subset with minimal where
this objective function attains its minimal value is called a $k$--fragment. In
this paper we present all the basic facts about the isoperimetric method. We
improve some of our previous results and obtaingeneralizations and short proofs
for several known results. We also give some new applications. Some of the
results obtained here will be used in coming papers to improve Kempermann
structure Theory.
  We introduce and study non-abelian cohomology sets of Hopf algebras with
coefficients in Hopf comodule algebras. We prove that these sets generalize as
well Serre's non-abelian group cohomology theory as the cohomological theory
constructed by the authors in a previous article. We establish their
functoriality and compute explicit examples. Further we classify Hopf torsors.
  These notes are a companion to the article "Lorentz spacetimes of constant
curvature" by Geoffrey Mess, which was first written in 1990 but never
published. Mess' paper will appear together with these notes in a forthcoming
issue of Geometriae Dedicata.
  It is explained how the time evolution of the operadic variables may be
introduced. As an example, an operadic Lax representation of the harmonic
oscillator is considered.
  We study the problem of the emergence of cooperation in the spatial
Prisoner's Dilemma. The pioneering work by Nowak and May showed that large
initial populations of cooperators can survive and sustain cooperation in a
square lattice with imitate-the-best evolutionary dynamics. We revisit this
problem in a cost-benefit formulation suitable for a number of biological
applications. We show that if a fixed-amount reward is established for
cooperators to share, a single cooperator can invade a population of defectors
and form structures that are resilient to re-invasion even if the reward
mechanism is turned off. We discuss analytically the case of the invasion by a
single cooperator and present agent-based simulations for small initial
fractions of cooperators. Large cooperation levels, in the sustainability
range, are found. In the conclusions we discuss possible applications of this
model as well as its connections with other mechanisms proposed to promote the
emergence of cooperation.
  We consider the following two-player game played on a separable,
infinite-dimensional Banach space X. Player S chooses a positive integer k_1
and a finite-codimensional subspace X_1 of X. Then player P chooses x_1 in the
unit sphere of X_1. Moves alternate thusly, forever. We study this game in the
following setting. Certain normalized, 1-unconditional sequences (u_i) and
(v_i) are fixed so that S has a winning strategy to force P to select x_i's so
that if the moves are (k_1,X_1,x_1,k_2,X_2,x_2,...), then (x_i) is dominated by
(u_{k_i}) and/or (x_i) dominates (v_{k_i}). In particular, we show that for
suitable (u_i) and (v_i) if X is reflexive and S can win both of the games
above, then X embeds into a reflexive space Z with an FDD which also satisfies
analogous block upper (u_i) and lower (v_i) estimates. Certain universal space
consequences ensue.
  This paper aims to give a probabilistic construction of interactions which
may be relevant for building physical theories such as interacting quantum
field theories. We start with the path integral definition of partition
function in quantum field theory which recall us the probabilistic nature of
this physical theory. From a Gaussian law considered as free theory, an
interacting theory is constructed by nontrivial convolution product between the
free theory and an interacting term which is also a probability law. The
resulting theory, again a probability law, exhibits two proprieties already
present in nowadays theories of interactions such as Gauge theory : the
interaction term does not depend on the free term, and two different free
theories can be implemented with the same interaction. The direct use of
Gaussian measures allows to generalize the present construction for infinite
dimensional spaces equipped with Gaussian measures.
  For a countable ordinal a we denote by C_a the class of separable, reflexive
Banach spaces whose Szlenk index and the Szlenk index of their dual are bounded
by a. We show that each C_a admits a separable, reflexive universal space. We
also show that spaces in the class C_{omega^{a*omega}} embed into spaces of the
same class with a basis. As a consequence we deduce that each C_a is analytic
in the Effros-Borel structure of subspaces of C[0,1].
  We prove a graded version of Alev-Polo's rigidity theorem: the homogenization
of the universal enveloping algebra of a semisimple Lie algebra and the Rees
ring of the Weyl algebras $A_n(k)$ cannot be isomorphic to their fixed subring
under any finite group action. We also show the same result for other classes
of graded regular algebras including the Sklyanin algebras.
  We consider the static and dynamic models of Cournot duopoly with tax
evasion. In the dynamic model we introduce the time delay and we analyze the
local stability of the stationary state. There is a critical value of the delay
when the Hopf bifurcation occurs.
  In this paper, we first study the local rings of a Berkovich analytic space
from the point of view of commutative algebra. We show that those rings are
excellent ; we introduce the notion of a an analytically separable extension of
non-archimedean complete fields (it includes the case of the finite separable
extensions, and also the case of any complete extension of a perfect complete
non-archimedean field) and show that the usual commutative algebra properties
(Rm, Sm, Gorenstein, Cohen-Macaulay, Complete Intersection) are stable under
analytically separable ground field extensions; we also establish a GAGA
principle with respect to those properties for any finitely generated scheme
over an affinoid algebra.
  A second part of the paper deals with more global geometric notions : we
define, show the existence and establish basic properties of the irreducible
components of analytic space ; we define, show the existence and establish
basic properties of its normalization ; and we study the behaviour of
connectedness and irreducibility with respect to base change.
  Let A be an excellent integral henselian local noetherian ring, k its residue
field of characteristic p>0 and K its fraction field. Using an algebraization
technique introduced by the first named author, and the one-dimension case
already proved by Kazuya KATO, we prove the following formula: cd_p(K) = dim(A)
+ p-rank(k), if k is separably closed and K of characteristic zero. A similar
statement is valid without those assumptions on k and K.
  Given a triangulation of a closed, oriented, irreducible, atoroidal
3-manifold every oriented, incompressible surface may be isotoped into normal
position relative to the triangulation. Such a normal oriented surface is then
encoded by non-negative integer weights, 14 for each 3-simplex, that describe
how many copies of each oriented normal disc type there are. The Euler
characteristic and homology class are both linear functions of the weights.
There is a convex polytope in the space of weights, defined by linear equations
given by the combinatorics of the triangulation, whose image under the homology
map is the unit ball, B, of the Thurston norm.
  Applications of this approach include (1) an algorithm to compute B and hence
the Thurston norm of any homology class, (2) an explicit exponential bound on
the number of vertices of B in terms of the number of simplices in the
triangulation, (3) an algorithm to determine the fibred faces of B and hence an
algorithm to decide whether a 3-manifold fibres over the circle.
  The main result of this note is that every closed Hamiltonian S^1 manifold is
uniruled, i.e. it has a nonzero Gromov--Witten invariant one of whose
constraints is a point. The proof uses the Seidel representation of \pi_1 of
the Hamiltonian group in the small quantum homology of M as well as the blow up
technique recently introduced by Hu, Li and Ruan. It applies more generally to
manifolds that have a loop of Hamiltonian symplectomorphisms with a
nondegenerate fixed maximum. Some consequences for Hofer geometry are explored.
An appendix discusses the structure of the quantum homology ring of uniruled
manifolds.
  This is the third of a series of three articles where we introduce
laminations for the free-groups. We explore here the link between currents and
laminations and prove that the situation is more complicated than in the
surface case of real tree dual to a measured geodesic lamination.
  Bobecka and Wesolowski (2002) have shown that, in the Olkin and Rubin
characterization of the Wishart distribution (See Casalis and Letac (1996)),
when we use the division algorithm defined by the quadratic representation and
replace the property of invariance by the existence of twice differentiable
densities, we still have a characterization of the Wishart distribution. In the
present work, we show that, when we use the division algorithm defined by the
Cholesky decomposition, we get a characterization of the Riesz distribution.
  We study the crystal graphs of irreducible $U_{v}(\hat{sl}}_{e})$-modules of
higher level l. Generalizing works of the first author, we obtain a simple
description of the bijections between the classes of multipartitions which
naturally label these graphs: the Uglov multipartitions. This is achieved by
expliciting an embedding of the $U_{v}(\hat{sl}}_{e})$-crystals of level l into
$U_{v}(\hat{sl}_{\infty})$-crystals associated to highest weight modules.
  We enumerate rooted triangulations of a sphere with multiple holes by the
total number of edges and the length of each boundary component. The proof
relies on a combinatorial identity due to W.T. Tutte.
  A new approach for upper bounding the channel reliability function using the
code spectrum is described. It allows to treat both low and high rate cases in
a unified way. In particular, the earlier known upper bounds are improved, and
a new derivation of the sphere-packing bound is presented.
  The reconstruction of a deterministic data field from binary-quantized noisy
observations of sensors which are randomly deployed over the field domain is
studied. The study focuses on the extremes of lack of deterministic control in
the sensor deployment, lack of knowledge of the noise distribution, and lack of
sensing precision and reliability. Such adverse conditions are motivated by
possible real-world scenarios where a large collection of low-cost, crudely
manufactured sensors are mass-deployed in an environment where little can be
assumed about the ambient noise. A simple estimator that reconstructs the
entire data field from these unreliable, binary-quantized, noisy observations
is proposed. Technical conditions for the almost sure and integrated mean
squared error (MSE) convergence of the estimate to the data field, as the
number of sensors tends to infinity, are derived and their implications are
discussed. For finite-dimensional, bounded-variation, and
Sobolev-differentiable function classes, specific integrated MSE decay rates
are derived. For the first and third function classes these rates are found to
be minimax order optimal with respect to infinite precision sensing and known
noise distribution.
  We show that the algebra of commuting Hamiltonians of the homogeneous XXX
Heisenberg model has simple spectrum on the subspace of singular vectors of the
tensor product of two-dimensional $gl_2$-modules. As a byproduct we show that
there exist exactly $\binom {n}{l}-\binom{n}{l-1}$ two-dimensional vector
subspaces $V \subset \C[u]$ with a basis $f,g\in V$ such that $\deg f = l, \deg
g = n-l+1$ and $f(u)g(u-1) - f(u-1)g(u) = (u+1)^n$.
  We give an upper bound for the maximal slope of the tensor product of several
non-zero Hermitian vector bundles on the spectrum of an algebraic integer ring.
By Minkowski's theorem, we need to estimate the Arakelov degree of an arbitrary
Hermitian line subbundle $\bar M$ of the tensor product. In the case where the
generic fiber of $M$ is semistable in the sense of geometric invariant theory,
the estimation is established by constructing, through the classical invariant
theory, a special polynomial which does not vanish on the generic fibre of $M$.
Otherwise we use an explicte version of a result of Ramanan and Ramanathan to
reduce the general case to the former one.
  Let a and b be two positive integers. A culminating path is a path of Z^2
that starts from (0,0), consists of steps (1,a) and (1,-b), stays above the
x-axis and ends at the highest ordinate it ever reaches. These paths were first
encountered in bioinformatics, in the analysis of similarity search algorithms.
They are also related to certain models of Lorentzian gravity in theoretical
physics. We first show that the language on a two letter alphabet that
naturally encodes culminating paths is not context-free. Then, we focus on the
enumeration of culminating paths. A step by step approach, combined with the
kernel method, provides a closed form expression for the generating fucntion of
culminating paths ending at a (generic) height k. In the case a=b, we derive
from this expression the asymptotic behaviour of the number of culminating
paths of length n. When a>b, we obtain the asymptotic behaviour by a simpler
argument. When a<b, we only determine the exponential growth of the number of
culminating paths. Finally, we study the uniform random generation of
culminating paths via various methods. The rejection approach, coupled with a
symmetry argument, gives an algorithm that is linear when a>= b, with no
precomputation stage nor non-linear storage required. The choice of the best
algorithm is not as clear when a<b. An elementary recursive approach yields a
linear algorithm after a precomputation stage involving O(n^3) arithmetic
operations, but we also present some alternatives that may be more efficient in
practise.
  We derive a Liouville type result for special Lagrangian equations with
certain "convexity" and restricted linear growth assumptions on the solutions.
  Let $\mathbb{F}_p$ be the field of a prime order $p.$ It is known that for
any integer $N\in [1,p]$ one can construct a subset $A\subset\mathbb{F}_p$ with
$|A|= N$ such that $$ \max\{|A+A|, |AA|\}\ll p^{1/2}|A|^{1/2}. $$ In the
present paper we prove that if $A\subset \mathbb{F}_p$ with $|A|>p^{2/3},$ then
$$ \max\{|A+A|, |AA|\}\gg p^{1/2}|A|^{1/2}. $$
  Let p be an odd prime. When n>2, we show that each tensor factor of form E
\otimes \Gamma in H(Z,n;Z_p) is an A-infinity bialgebra with non-trivial
structure. We give explicit formulas for the structure maps and the quadratic
relations among them. Thus E \otimes \Gamma is a naturally occurring example of
an A-infinity bialgebra whose internal structure is well-understood.
  We regard a contact metric manifold whose Reeb vector field belongs to the
$(\kappa,\mu)$-nullity distribution as a bi-Legendrian manifold and we study
its canonical bi-Legendrian structure. Then we characterize contact metric
$(\kappa,\mu)$-spaces in terms of a canonical connection which can be naturally
defined on them.
  Given a Gelfand pair of Lie groups, we identify the spectrum with a suitable
subset of C^n and we prove the equivalence between Gelfand topology and
euclidean topology.
  General analytic energy bounds are derived for N-boson systems governed by
ultrarelativistic Hamiltonians of the form
  H = sum_{i=1}^N||p_i|| + sum_{1=i<j}^N V(r_{ij}), where V(r) is a static
attractive pair potential. It is proved that a translation-invariant model
Hamiltonian H_c provides a lower bound to H for all N \ge 2. This result was
conjectured in an earlier paper but proved only for N = 2,3,4. As an example,
the energy in the case of the linear potential V(r) = r is determined with
error less than 0.55% for all N \ge 2.
  This paper describes how the structure of the state space of the quantum
harmonic oscillator can be described by an adjunction of categories, that
encodes the raising and lowering operators into a commutative comonoid. The
formulation is an entirely general one in which Hilbert spaces play no special
role. Generalised coherent states arise through the hom-set isomorphisms
defining the adjunction, and we prove that they are eigenstates of the lowering
operators. Surprisingly, generalised exponentials also emerge naturally in this
setting, and we demonstrate that coherent states are produced by the
exponential of a raising morphism acting on the zero-particle state. Finally,
we examine all of these constructions in a suitable category of Hilbert spaces,
and find that they reproduce the conventional mathematical structures.
  We give an explicit formula for the difference between the standard and
reduced genus-one Gromov-Witten invariants. Combined with previous work on
geometric properties of the latter, this paper makes it possible to compute the
standard genus-one GW-invariants of complete intersections. In particular, we
obtain a closed formula for the genus-one GW-invariants of a Calabi-Yau
projective hypersurface and verify a recent mirror symmetry prediction for a
sextic fourfold as a special case.
  We consider the following problem of decentralized statistical inference:
given i.i.d. samples from an unknown distribution, estimate an arbitrary
quantile subject to limits on the number of bits exchanged. We analyze a
standard fusion-based architecture, in which each of $m$ sensors transmits a
single bit to the fusion center, which in turn is permitted to send some number
$k$ bits of feedback. Supposing that each of $\nodenum$ sensors receives $n$
observations, the optimal centralized protocol yields mean-squared error
decaying as $\order(1/[n m])$. We develop and analyze the performance of
various decentralized protocols in comparison to this centralized
gold-standard. First, we describe a decentralized protocol based on $k =
\log(\nodenum)$ bits of feedback that is strongly consistent, and achieves the
same asymptotic MSE as the centralized optimum. Second, we describe and analyze
a decentralized protocol based on only a single bit ($k=1$) of feedback. For
step sizes independent of $m$, it achieves an asymptotic MSE of order
$\order[1/(n \sqrt{m})]$, whereas for step sizes decaying as $1/\sqrt{m}$, it
achieves the same $\order(1/[n m])$ decay in MSE as the centralized optimum.
Our theoretical results are complemented by simulations, illustrating the
tradeoffs between these different protocols.
  The Jacobian algebras are introduced and their various properties are
studied.
  Sequences that are defined by multisums of hypergeometric terms with compact
support occur frequently in enumeration problems of combinatorics, algebraic
geometry and perturbative quantum field theory. The standard recipe to study
the asymptotic expansion of such sequences is to find a recurrence satisfied by
them, convert it into a differential equation satisfied by their generating
series, and analyze the singulatiries in the complex plane. We propose a
shortcut by constructing directly from the structure of the hypergeometric term
a finite set, for which we conjecture (and in some cases prove) that it
contains all the singularities of the generating series. Our construction of
this finite set is given by the solution set of a balanced system of polynomial
equations of a rather special form, reminiscent of the Bethe ansatz. The finite
set can also be identified with the set of critical values of a potential
function, as well as with the evaluation of elements of an additive $K$-theory
group by a regulator function. We give a proof of our conjecture in some
special cases, and we illustrate our results with numerous examples.
  We give some new advances in the research of the maximum number of triangles
that we may obtain in a simple arrangements of n lines or pseudo-lines.
  We establish necessary and sufficient conditions for a quadratic polynomial
to be irreducible in the ring $Z[[x]]$ of formal power series with integer
coefficients. For $n,m\ge 1$ and $p$ prime, we show that $p^n+p^m\beta x+\alpha
x^2$ is reducible in $Z[[x]]$ if and only if it is reducible in $Z_p[x]$, the
ring of polynomials over the $p$-adic integers.
  Let L be a link in an thickened annulus. We specify the embedding of this
annulus in the three sphere, and consider its complement thought of as the axis
to L. In the right circumstances this axis lifts to a null-homologous knot in
the double branched cover of the three sphere, branched over the embedded copy
of L. This paper shows that the knot Floer homology of this lift, with mod 2
coefficients, can be computed from a spectral sequence starting at a type of
Khovanov homology already described by Asaeda, Przytycki, and Sikora. We extend
the known results about this type of Khovanov homology, and use it to provide a
very simple explanation of the case when L is alternating for the obvious
projection.
  A companion paper to "On knot Floer homology in branched double covers"
applied to braided branched loci. We reprove the main result of that paper
concerning alternating branched loci when projected to an annulus, without
using Khovanov homology. This provides two advantages: 1) the results hold for
integer coefficients and 2) the spin^c structures are more readily discernable.
We apply this result to a branch locus which is a braid, and use the braid
structure to find information about a fibered knot in the branched double
cover. In some cases this provides all the information about the knot Floer
homology and can be used to derive information about the Heegaard-Floer
homology of associated fibered three manifolds. Results for certain positive
braids are also included, establishing results similar to E. Eftekhary's in the
Heegaard-Floer setting.
  Extending our earlier work on PSL(2|2), we explain how to reduce the solution
of WZNW models on general type I supergroups to those defined on the bosonic
subgroup. The new analysis covers in particular the supergroups GL(M|N) along
with several close relatives such as PSL(N|N), certain Poincare supergroups and
the series OSP(2|2N). This remarkable progress relies on the use of a special
Feigin-Fuchs type representation. In preparation for the field theory analysis,
we shall exploit a minisuperspace analogue of a free fermion construction to
deduce the spectrum of the Laplacian on type I supergroups. The latter is shown
to be non-diagonalizable. After lifting these results to the full WZNW model,
we address various issues of the field theory, including its modular invariance
and the computation of correlation functions. In agreement with previous
findings, supergroup WZNW models allow to study chiral and non-chiral aspects
of logarithmic conformal field theory within a geometric framework. We shall
briefly indicate how insights from WZNW models carry over to non-geometric
examples, such as e.g. the W(p) triplet models.
  In this note we present a simplified proof of the zero-one law by Merkl and
Zerner (2001) for directional transience of random walks in i.i.d. random
environments (RWRE) on the square lattice. Also, we indicate how to construct a
two-dimensional counterexample in a non-uniformly elliptic and stationary
environment which has better ergodic properties than the example given by Merkl
and Zerner.
  We present a fast, adaptive multiresolution algorithm for applying integral
operators with a wide class of radially symmetric kernels in dimensions one,
two and three. This algorithm is made efficient by the use of separated
representations of the kernel. We discuss operators of the class
$(-\Delta+\mu^{2}I)^{-\alpha}$, where $\mu\geq0$ and $0<\alpha<3/2$, and
illustrate the algorithm for the Poisson and Schr\"{o}dinger equations in
dimension three. The same algorithm may be used for all operators with radially
symmetric kernels approximated as a weighted sum of Gaussians, making it
applicable across multiple fields by reusing a single implementation.
  This fast algorithm provides controllable accuracy at a reasonable cost,
comparable to that of the Fast Multipole Method (FMM). It differs from the FMM
by the type of approximation used to represent kernels and has an advantage of
being easily extendable to higher dimensions.
  We show that the spectral radius of an $N\times N$ random symmetric matrix
with i.i.d. bounded centered but non-symmetrically distributed entries is
bounded from below by $ 2 \*\sigma - o(N^{-6/11+\epsilon}), $ where $\sigma^2 $
is the variance of the matrix entries and $\epsilon $ is an arbitrary small
positive number. Combining with our previous result from [7], this proves that
for any $\epsilon >0, $ one has $$ \|A_N\| =2 \*\sigma + o(N^{-6/11+\epsilon})
$$ with probability going to 1 as $N \to \infty. $
  In the paper, we discuss orthogonal polynomials in free probability theory.
Especially, we prove an analogue of of Szego's limit theorem in free
probability theory.
  We study log canonical thresholds on quartic threefolds, quintic fourfolds,
and double spaces. As an application, we show that they have a Kaehler-Einstein
metric if they are general.
  For the weight function $\prod_{i=1}^{d+1}|x_i|^{2\k_i}$ on the unit sphere,
sharp local estimates of the orthogonal projection operators are obtained and
used to prove the convergence of the Ces\`aro $(C,\delta)$ means in the
weighted $L^p$ space for $\delta$ below the critical index. Similar results are
also proved for corresponding weight functions on the unit ball and on the
simplex.
  We study the stabilizing effect of rotational forcing in the nonlinear
setting of two-dimensional shallow-water and more general models of
compressible Euler equations. In [H. Liu and E. Tadmor, Phys. D 188 (2004), no.
3-4, 262-276] we have shown that the pressureless version of these equations
admit global smooth solution for a large set of sub-critical initial
configurations. In the present work we prove that when rotational force
dominates the pressure, it \emph{prolongs} the life-span of smooth solutions
for t < ln(1/d); here d << 1 is the ratio of the pressure gradient measured by
the inverse squared Froude number, relative to the dominant rotational forces
measured by the inverse Rossby number. Our study reveals a ``nearby''
periodic-in-time approximate solution in the small d-regime, upon which hinges
the long time existence of the exact smooth solution. These results are in
agreement with the close-to periodic dynamics observed in the ``near inertial
oscillation'' (NIO) regime which follows oceanic storms. Indeed, our results
indicate the existence of smooth, ``approximate periodic'' solution for a time
period of \emph{days}, which is the relevant time period found in NIO
obesrvations.
  In this paper we present a novel framework for sequence to shape maps. These
combinatorial maps realize exponentially many shapes, and have preimages which
contain extended connected subgraphs of diameter n (neutral networks). We prove
that all basic properties of RNA folding maps also hold for combinatorial maps.
Our construction is as follows: suppose we are given a graph $H$ over the $\{1
>...,n\}$ and an alphabet of nucleotides together with a symmetric relation
$\mathcal{R}$, implied by base pairing rules. Then the shape of a sequence of
length n is the maximal H subgraph in which all pairs of nucleotides incident
to H-edges satisfy $\mathcal{R}$. Our main result is to prove the existence of
at least $\sqrt{2}^{n-1}$ shapes with extended neutral networks, i.e. shapes
that have a preimage with diameter $n$ and a connected component of size at
least $(\frac{1+\sqrt{5}}{2})^n+(\frac{1-\sqrt{5}}{2})^n$. Furthermore, we show
that there exists a certain subset of shapes which carries a natural graph
structure. In this graph any two shapes are connected by a path of shapes with
respective neutral networks of distance one. We finally discuss our results and
provide a comparison with RNA folding maps.
  We present an iterative technique to obtain skew-orthogonal polynomials with
quartic weight, arising in the study of symplectic ensembles of random
matrices.
  Exact Heisenberg operator solutions for independent `sinusoidal coordinates'
as many as the degree of freedom are derived for typical exactly solvable
multi-particle quantum mechanical systems, the Calogero systems based on any
root system. These Heisenberg operator solutions also present the explicit
forms of the annihilation-creation operators for various quanta in the
interacting multi-particle systems. At the same time they can be interpreted as
multi-variable generalisation of the three term recursion relations for
multi-variable orthogonal polynomials constituting the eigenfunctions.
  The multiple reference state structure of the $\Z_n$ Belavin model with
non-diagonal boundary terms is discovered. It is found that there exist $n$
reference states, each of them yields a set of eigenvalues and Bethe Ansatz
equations of the transfer matrix. These $n$ sets of eigenvalues together
constitute the complete spectrum of the model. In the quasi-classic limit, they
give the complete spectrum of the corresponding Gaudin model.
  A method for constructing Lagrangians for the Lie transformation groups is
explained. As examples, the Lagrangians for real plane rotations and affine
transformations of the real line are constructed.
  We put a new conjecture on primes from the point of view of its binary
expansions and make a step towards justification.
  We introduce a class of polynomial maps that we call polynomial roots of
powerseries, and show that automorphisms with this property generate the
automorphism group in any dimension. In particular we determine generically
which polynomial maps that preserve the origin are roots of powerseries. We
study the one-dimensional case in greater depth.
  Let P := {X_i,i >= 1} be a stationary Poisson point process in R^d, {C_i,i >=
1} be a sequence of i.i.d. random sets in R^d, and {Y_i^t; t \geq 0, i >= 1} be
i.i.d. {0,1}-valued continuous time stationary Markov chains. We define the
Markov-Poisson-Boolean model C_t := {Y_i^t(X_i + C_i), i >= 1}. C_t represents
the coverage process at time t. We first obtain limit laws for k-coverage of an
area at an arbitrary instant. We then obtain the limit laws for the k-coverage
seen by a particle as it moves along a one-dimensional path.
  Let $p$ be an odd prime. We construct a non-abelian extension $\Gamma$ of
$S^1$ by $Z/p \times Z/p$, and prove that any finite subgroup of $\Gamma$ acts
freely and smoothly on $S^{2p-1} \times S^{2p-1}$. In particular, for each odd
prime $p$ we obtain free smooth actions of infinitely many non-metacyclic rank
two $p$-groups on $S^{2p-1} \times S^{2p-1}$. These results arise from a
general approach to the existence problem for finite group actions on products
of equidimensional spheres.
  Let $A_1,...,A_N$ be complex self-adjoint matrices and let $\rho$ be a
density matrix. The Robertson uncertainty principle $$ det(Cov_\rho(A_h,A_j))
\geq det(- \frac{i}{2} Tr(\rho [A_h,A_j])) $$ gives a bound for the quantum
generalized covariance in terms of the commutators $[A_h,A_j]$. The right side
matrix is antisymmetric and therefore the bound is trivial (equal to zero) in
the odd case $N=2m+1$.
  Let $f$ be an arbitrary normalized symmetric operator monotone function and
let $<\cdot, \cdot >_{\rho,f}$ be the associated quantum Fisher information. In
this paper we conjecture the inequality $$ det (Cov_\rho(A_h,A_j)) \geq det
(\frac{f(0)}{2} < i[\rho, A_h],i[\rho,A_j] >_{\rho,f}) $$ that gives a
non-trivial bound for any natural number $N$ using the commutators $i[\rho,
A_h]$. The inequality has been proved in the cases $N=1,2$ by the joint efforts
of many authors. In this paper we prove the case N=3 for real matrices.
  We present a new variational model for computing the electronic first-order
density matrix of a crystalline material in presence of a local defect. A
natural way to obtain variational discretizations of this model is to expand
the difference Q between the density matrix of the defective crystal and the
density matrix of the perfect crystal, in a basis of precomputed maximally
localized Wannier functions of the reference perfect crystal. This approach can
be used within any semi-empirical or Density Functional Theory framework.
  We show that for a hypersurface Batyrev's stringy E-function can be seen as a
residue of the Hodge zeta function, a specialization of the motivic zeta
function of Denef and Loeser. This is a nice application of inversion of
adjunction. If an affine hypersurface is given by a polynomial that is
non-degenerate with respect to its Newton polyhedron, then the motivic zeta
function and thus the stringy E-function can be computed from this Newton
polyhedron (by work of Artal, Cassou-Nogues, Luengo and Melle based on an
algorithm of Denef and Hoornaert). We use this procedure to obtain an easy way
to compute the contribution of a Brieskorn singularity to the stringy
E-function. As a corollary, we prove that stringy Hodge numbers of varieties
with a certain class of strictly canonical Brieskorn singularities are
nonnegative. We conclude by computing an interesting 6-dimensional example. It
shows that a result, implying nonnegativity of stringy Hodge numbers in lower
dimensional cases, obtained in our previous paper, is not true in higher
dimension.
  We present {\it symmetric Hamiltonians} for the degenerate Garnier systems in
two variables. For these symmetric Hamiltonians, we make the symmetry and
holomorphy conditions, and we also make a generalization of these systems
involving symmetry and holomorphy conditions inductively. We also show the
confluence process among each system by taking the coupling confluence process
of the Painlev\'e systems.
  In arrangements of pseudocircles (Jordan curves) the weight of a vertex
(intersection point) is the number of pseudocircles that contain the vertex in
its interior. We give improved upper bounds on the number of vertices of weight
<=k in certain arrangements of pseudocircles in the plane. In particular,
forbidding certain subarrangements we improve the known bound of 6n-12 (cf.
Kedem et al., 1986) for vertices of weight 0 in arrangements of n pseudocircles
to 4n-6. In complete arrangements (i.e. arrangements with each two
pseudocircles intersecting) we identify two subarrangements of three and four
pseudocircles, respectively, whose absence gives improved bounds for vertices
of weight 0 and more generally for vertices of weight <=k.
  We consider the quantum scattering from a random potential of strength
$\lambda^{1/2}$ and with a support on the scale of the mean free path, which is
of order $\lambda^{-1}$. On the basis of maximally crossed diagrams we provide
a concise formula for the backscattering rate in terms of the Green's function
for the kinetic Boltzmann equation. We briefly discuss the extension to wave
scattering.
  The current status of the derivation of kinetic equations from quantum
many-particle dynamics is reviewed.
  In the first part of this paper math-ph/0612078, a complete description of
Q-conditional symmetries for two classes of reaction-diffusion-convection
equations with power diffusivities is derived. It was shown that all the known
results for reaction-diffusion equations with power diffusivities follow as
particular cases from those obtained in math-ph/0612078 but not vise versa. In
the second part the symmetries obtained in are successfully applied for
constructing exact solutions of the relevant equations. In the particular case,
new exact solutions of nonlinear reaction-diffusion-convection (RDC) equations
arising in application and their natural generalizations are found.
  We discuss energy current correlations in thermal equilibrium and point out
the linkage to the fluctuating Peierls equation.
  In this paper we present a stability criterion for finite measure-valued
stochastic recursions, generalizing Loynes's Theorem to spaces of measures.
This result provides conditions for the reach of a "total stationary state" for
the queue with an infinity of servers and the single-server SRPT queue. Indeed,
we give in both cases a condition of existence of a stationary measure-valued
recursive sequence characterizing the queueing system exhaustively.
  In this article we will study the initial value problem for some
Schr\"odinger equations with Diraclike initial data and therefore with infinite
L2 mass, obtaining positive results for subcritical nonlinearities. In the
critical case and in one dimension we prove that after some renormalization the
corresponding solution has finite energy. This allows us to conclude a
stability result in the defocusing setting. These problems are related to the
existence of a singular dynamics for Schr\"odinger maps through the so called
Hasimoto transformation.
  This is an extended abstract of my talk at the Oberwolfach Workshop
"Algebraic Groups" (April 22 - 28, 2007). It is based on a joint work with
H.Derksen and J.Weyman (arXiv:0704.0649v2 [math.RA]).
  Linear structural error-in-variables models with univariate observations are
revisited for studying modified least squares estimators of the slope and
intercept. New marginal central limit theorems (CLT's) are established for
these estimators, assuming the existence of four moments for the measurement
errors and that the explanatory variables are in the domain of attraction of
the normal law. The latter condition for the explanatory variables is used the
first time, and is so far the most general in this context. It is also optimal,
or nearly optimal, for our CLT's. Moreover, due to the obtained CLT's being in
Studentized and self-normalized forms to begin with, they are a priori nearly,
or completely, data-based, and free of unknown parameters of the joint
distribution of the error and explanatory variables. Consequently, they lead to
a variety of readily available, or easily derivable, large-sample approximate
confidence intervals (CI's) for the slope and intercept. In contrast, in
related CLT's in the literature so far, the variances of the limiting normal
distributions, in general, are complicated and depend on various, typically
unknown, moments of the error and explanatory variables. Thus, the
corresponding CI's for the slope and intercept in the literature, unlike those
of the present paper, are available only under some additional model
assumptions.
  A Feynman-Kac-type formula for a L\'evy and an infinite dimensional Gaussian
random process associated with a quantized radiation field is derived. In
particular, a functional integral representation of $e^{-t\PF}$ generated by
the Pauli-Fierz Hamiltonian with spin $\han$ in non-relativistic quantum
electrodynamics is constructed. When no external potential is applied $\PF$
turns translation invariant and it is decomposed as a direct integral $\PF =
\int_\BR^\oplus \PF(P) dP$. The functional integral representation of
$e^{-t\PF(P)}$ is also given. Although all these Hamiltonians include spin,
nevertheless the kernels obtained for the path measures are scalar rather than
matrix expressions. As an application of the functional integral
representations energy comparison inequalities are derived.
  We study the almost sure convergence of randomly truncated stochastic
algorithms. We present a new convergence theorem which extends the already
known results by making vanish the classical condition on the noise terms. The
aim of this work is to prove an almost sure convergence result of randomly
truncated stochastic algorithms under easily verifiable conditions
  We prove optimal constant over root $n$ upper bounds for the maximal
probabilities of $n$th convolution powers of discrete uniform distributions.
  In this paper, explicit error bounds are derived in the approximation of rank
$k$ projections of certain $n$-dimensional random vectors by standard
$k$-dimensional Gaussian random vectors. The bounds are given in terms of $k$,
$n$, and a basis of the $k$-dimensional space onto which we project. The random
vectors considered are two generalizations of the case of a vector with
independent, identically distributed components. In the first case, the random
vector has components which are independent but need not have the same
distribution. The second case deals with finite exchangeable sequences of
random variables.
  It is proved that CR functions on a quadratic cone M in $\C^n$, n>1, admit
one-sided holomorphic extension if and only if M does not have two-sided
support, a geometric condition on M which generalizes minimality in the sense
of Tumanov. A biholomorphic classification of quadratic cones in $\C^2$ is also
given.
  Given $A\in\Omega_n,$ the $n^2$-dimensional spectral unit ball, we show that
$B$ is a "generalized" tangent vector at $A$ to an entire curve in $\Omega_n$
if and only if $B$ is in the tangent cone $C_A$ to the isospectral variety at
$A.$ In the case of $\Omega_3,$ the zero set of this metric is completely
described.
  We explain how the kinetic theory of L. Boltzmann is applied to weakly
nonlinear wave equations.
  Let ${\cal M}_{g,[n]}$, for $2g-2+n>0$, be the D-M moduli stack of smooth
curves of genus $g$ labeled by $n$ unordered distinct points. The main result
of the paper is that a finite, connected \'etale cover ${\cal M}^\l$ of ${\cal
M}_{g,[n]}$, defined over a sub-$p$-adic field $k$, is "almost" anabelian in
the sense conjectured by Grothendieck for curves and their moduli spaces.
  The precise result is the following. Let $\pi_1({\cal M}^\l_{\ol{k}})$ be the
geometric algebraic fundamental group of ${\cal M}^\l$ and let
${Out}^*(\pi_1({\cal M}^\l_{\ol{k}}))$ be the group of its exterior
automorphisms which preserve the conjugacy classes of elements corresponding to
simple loops around the Deligne-Mumford boundary of ${\cal M}^\l$ (this is the
"$\ast$-condition" motivating the "almost" above). Let us denote by
${Out}^*_{G_k}(\pi_1({\cal M}^\l_{\ol{k}}))$ the subgroup consisting of
elements which commute with the natural action of the absolute Galois group
$G_k$ of $k$. Let us assume, moreover, that the generic point of the D-M stack
${\cal M}^\l$ has a trivial automorphisms group. Then, there is a natural
isomorphism: $${Aut}_k({\cal M}^\l)\cong{Out}^*_{G_k}(\pi_1({\cal
M}^\l_{\ol{k}})).$$ This partially extends to moduli spaces of curves the
anabelian properties proved by Mochizuki for hyperbolic curves over
sub-$p$-adic fields.
  A position coding pattern is an array of symbols in which subarrays of a
certain fixed size appear at most once. So, each subarray uniquely identifies a
location in the larger array, which means there is a bijection of some sort
from this set of subarrays to a set of coordinates. The key to Fly Pentop
Computer paper and other examples of position codes is a method to read the
subarray and then convert it to coordinates. Position coding makes use of ideas
from discrete mathematics and number theory. In this paper, we will describe
the underlying mathematics of two position codes, one being the Anoto code that
is the basis of "Fly paper". Then, we will present two new codes, one which
uses binary wavelets as part of the bijection.
  We compute the shape derivative of the first eigenvalue of the 1-Laplacian.
As an application, we find that a ball is critical among all volume-preserving
deformations.
  Selfdual variational calculus is further refined and used to address
questions of existence of local and global solutions for various parabolic
semi-linear equations, Hamiltonian systems of PDEs, as well as certain
nonlinear Schrodinger evolutions. This allows for the resolution of such
equations under general time boundary conditions which include the more
traditional ones such as initial value problems, periodic and anti-periodic
orbits, but also yield new ones such as "periodic orbits up to an isometry" for
evolution equations that may not have periodic solutions. In the process, we
introduce a method for perturbing selfdual functionals in order to induce
coercivity and compactness, while keeping the system selfdual.
  We use Dirac operator techniques to a establish sharp lower bound for the
first eigenvalue of the Dolbeault Laplacian twisted by Hermitian-Einstein
connections on vector bundles of negative degree over compact K\"ahler
manifolds.
  The application of Stein's method for distributional approximation often
involves so called Stein factors (also called 'magic factors') in the bound of
the solutions to Stein equations. However, in some cases these factors contain
additional (undesirable) logarithmic terms. It has been shown for many Stein
factors that the known bounds are sharp and thus that these additional
logarithmic terms cannot be avoided in general. However, no probabilistic
examples have appeared in the literature that would show that these terms in
the Stein factors are not just unavoidable artefacts, but that they are there
for a good reason. In this article we close this gap by constructing such
examples. This also leads to a new interpretation of the solutions to Stein
equations.
  Motivated by finance and technical applications, the objective of this paper
is to consider adaptive estimation of regression and density distribution based
on Fourier-Legendre expansion, and construction of confidence intervals - also
adaptive. The estimators are asymptotically optimal and adaptive in the sense
that they can adapt to unknown smoothness.
  We give a survey of results relating the restricted holonomy of a Riemannian
spin manifold with lower bounds on the spectrum of its Dirac operator, giving a
new proof of a result originally due to Kirchberg.
  We find necessary and sufficient conditions for the bi-Legendrian connection
$\nabla$ associated to a bi-Legendrian structure $(\cal F,\cal G)$ on a contact
metric manifold $(M,\phi,\xi,\eta,g)$ being a metric connection and then we
give conditions ensuring that $\nabla$ coincides with the (generalized)
Tanaka-Webster connection of $(M,\phi,\xi,\eta,g)$. Using these results, we
give some interpretations of the Tanaka-Webster connection and we study the
interactions between the Tanaka-Webster, the bi-Legendrian and the Levi Civita
connection in a Sasakian manifold.
  We study the gaps between consecutive prime numbers directly through
Eratosthenes sieve. Using elementary methods, we identify a recursive relation
for these gaps and for specific sequences of consecutive gaps, known as
constellations. Using this recursion we can estimate the numbers of a gap or of
a constellation that occur between a prime and its square. This recursion also
has explicit implications for open questions about gaps between prime numbers,
including three questions posed by Erd\"os and Tur\'an.
  We define a morphism based upon a Latin square that generalizes the
Thue-Morse morphism. We prove that fixed points of this morphism are
overlap-free sequences generalizing results of Allouche - Shallit and Frid.
  Associated to a IFS one can consider a continuous map $\hat{\sigma} :
[0,1]\times \Sigma \to [0,1]\times \Sigma$, defined by
$\hat{\sigma}(x,w)=(\tau_{X_{1}(w)}(x), \sigma(w))$ were $\Sigma=\{0,1, ...,
d-1\}^{\mathbb{N}}$, $\sigma: \Sigma \to \Sigma$ is given
by$\sigma(w_{1},w_{2},w_{3},...)=(w_{2},w_{3},w_{4}...)$ and $X_{k} : \Sigma
\to \{0,1, ..., n-1\}$ is the projection on the coordinate $k$. A
$\rho$-weighted system, $\rho \geq 0$, is a weighted system $([0,1], \tau_{i},
u_{i})$ such that there exists a positive bounded function $h : [0,1] \to
\mathbb{R}$ and probability $\nu $ on $[0,1]$ satisfying $ P_{u}(h)=\rho h,
\quad P_{u}^{*}(\nu)=\rho\nu$. A probability $\hat{\nu}$ on $[0,1]\times
\Sigma$ is called holonomic for $\hat{\sigma}$ if $ \int g \circ \hat{\sigma}
d\hat{\nu}= \int g d\hat{\nu}, \forall g \in C([0,1])$. We denote the set of
holonomic probabilities by ${\cal H}$. Via disintegration, holonomic
probabilities $\hat{\nu}$ on $[0,1]\times \Sigma$ are naturally associated to a
$\rho$-weighted system. More precisely, there exist a probability $\nu$ on
$[0,1]$ and $u_i, i\in\{0, 1,2,..,d-1\}$ on $[0,1]$, such that is
$P_{u}^*(\nu)=\nu$. We consider holonomic ergodic probabilities. For a
holonomic probability we define entropy. Finally, we analyze the problem: given
$\phi \in \mathbb{B}^{+}$, find the solution of the maximization pressure
problem $$p(\phi)=$$
  We establish inequalities for the eigenvalues of Schr\"{o}dinger operators on
compact submanifolds (possibly with nonempty boundary) of Euclidean spaces, of
spheres, and of real, complex and quaternionic projective spaces, which are
related to inequalities for the Laplacian on Euclidean domains due to Payne,
P\'olya, and Weinberger and to Yang, but which depend in an explicit way on the
mean curvature. In later sections, we prove similar results for Schr\"{o}dinger
operators on homogeneous Riemannian spaces and, more generally, on any
Riemannian manifold that admits an eigenmap into a sphere, as well as for the
Kohn Laplacian on subdomains of the Heisenberg group.
  Among the consequences of this analysis are an extension of Reilly's
inequality, bounding any eigenvalue of the Laplacian in terms of the mean
curvature, and spectral criteria for the immersibility of manifolds in
homogeneous spaces.
  It is shown that if a Banach space X has the weak Banach-Saks property and
the weak fixed point property for nonexpansive mappings and Y satisfies
property asymptotic (P) (which is weaker than the condition WCS(Y)>1), then the
direct sum of X and Y endowed with a strictly monotone norm enjoys the weak
fixed point property. The same conclusion is valid if X admits a
1-unconditional basis.
  For a broad class of unitary ensembles of random matrices we demonstrate the
universal nature of the Janossy densities of eigenvalues near the spectral
edge, providing a different formulation of the probability distributions of the
limiting second, third, etc. largest eigenvalues of the ensembles in question.
The approach is based on a representation of the Janossy densities in terms of
a system of orthogonal polynomials, plus the steepest descent method of Deift
and Zhou for the asymptotic analysis of the associated Riemann-Hilbert problem.
  We define functorial isomorphisms of parallel transport along \'etale paths
for a class of principal $G$-bundles on a $p$-adic curve. Here $G$ is a
connected reductive algebraic group of finite presentation and the considered
principal bundles are just those with potentially strongly semistable reduction
of degree zero. The constructed isomorphisms yield continous functors from the
\'etale fundamental groupoid of the given curve to the category of topological
spaces with a simply transitive continous right $G(\mathbb{C}_{p})$-action.
This generalizes a construction in the case of vector bundles on a $p$-adic
curve by Deninger and Werner. It may be viewed as a partial $p$-adic analogue
of the classical theory by Ramanathan of principal bundles on compact Riemann
surfaces, which generalizes the classical Narasimhan--Seshadri theory of vector
bundles on compact Riemann surfaces.
  The objective of this paper is to solve the controller synthesis problem for
bisimulation equivalence in a wide variety of scenarios including
discrete-event systems, nonlinear control systems, behavioral systems, hybrid
systems and many others. This will be accomplished by showing that the
arguments underlying proofs of existence and methods for the construction of
controllers are extraneous to the particular class of systems being considered
and thus can be presented in greater generality.
  The Euler characteristic of all the Chow varieties, of a fixed projective
variety, can be collected in a formal power series called the Euler-Chow
series. This series coincides with the Hilbert series when the Picard group is
a finite generated free abelian group. It is an interesting open problem to
find for which varieties this series is rational. A few cases have been
computed, and it is suspected that the series is not rational for the blow up
of P^2 at nine points in general position.
  It is very natural to extend this series to Chow motives and ask the question
if the series is rational or to find a counterexample. In this short paper we
generalized the series and show by an example that the series is not rational.
This opens the question of what is the geometrical meaning of the Euler-Chow
series.
  Physicists showed that the generating function of orbifold elliptic genera of
symmetric orbifolds can be written as an infinite product. We show that there
exists a geometric factorization on space level behind this infinite product
formula in much more general framework, where factors in the infinite product
correspond to isomorphism classes of connected finite covering spaces of
manifolds involved. From this formula, a concept of geometric Hecke operators
for functors emerges. We show that these Hecke operators indeed satisfy the
usual identity of Hecke operators for the case of 2-dimensional tori.
  Chas and Sullivan showed that the homology of the free loop space
  LM of an oriented closed smooth finite dimensional manifold M admits the
structure of a Batalin-Vilkovisky (BV) algebra equipped with an associative
product called the loop product and a Lie bracket called the loop bracket. We
show that the cap product is compatible with the above two products in the loop
homology. Namely, the cap product with cohomology classes coming from M via the
circle action acts as derivations on loop products as well as on loop brackets.
We show that Poisson identities and Jacobi identities hold for the cap product
action, extending the BV structure in the loop homology to the one including
the cohomology of M. Finally, we describe the cap product in terms of the BV
algebra structure in the loop homology.
  In this paper, which is the continuation of [EFW2], we complete the proof of
the quasi-isometric rigidity of Sol and the lamplighter groups. The results
were announced in [EFW1].
  Let $k \ge 2$ and $\alpha_1, \beta_1, ..., \alpha_k, \beta_k$ be reals such
that the $\alpha_i$'s are irrational and greater than 1. Suppose further that
some ratio $\alpha_i/\alpha_j$ is irrational. We study the representations of
an integer $n$ in the form $$ p_1 + p_2 + ... + p_k = n, $$ where $p_i$ is a
prime from the Beatty sequence $$ \mathcal B_i = \left\{n \in \mathbb N : n = [
\alpha_i m + \beta_i ] \text{for some} m \in \mathbb Z \right\}. $$
  We construct real analytic flat Moebius strips of arbitrary isotopy types,
whose centerlines are geodesics or lines of curvature.
  We prove the local Langlands conjecture for $GSp_4(F)$ where $F$ is a
non-archimedean local field of characteristic zero.
  Given a bi-Lipschitz measure-preserving homeomorphism of a compact metric
measure space of finite dimension, consider the sequence formed by the
Lipschitz norms of its iterations. We obtain lower bounds on the growth rate of
this sequence assuming that our homeomorphism mixes a Lipschitz function. In
particular, we get a universal lower bound which depends on the dimension of
the space but not on the rate of mixing. Furthermore, we get a lower bound on
the growth rate in the case of rapid mixing. The latter turns out to be sharp:
the corresponding example is given by a symbolic dynamical system associated to
the Rudin-Shapiro sequence.
  Given an abelian group $A$ and a Lie group $G$, we construct a bilinear
pairing from $A\times\pi_1({\mathcal R})$ to $\pi_1(G)$, where $\mathcal R$ is
a subvariety of the variety of representations $A\to G$.
  In the case where $A$ is the peripheral subgroup of a torus or two-bridge
knot group, $G=S^1$ and $\mathcal R$ is a certain variety of representations
arising from suitable SU(2)-representations of the knot group, we show that
this pairing is not identically zero. We discuss the consequences of this
result for the SU(2)-representations of fundamental groups of manifolds
obtained by Dehn surgery on such knots.
  A trivalent diagram is a connected, two-colored bipartite graph (parallel
edges allowed but not loops) such that every black vertex is of degree 1 or 3
and every white vertex is of degree 1 or 2, with a cyclic order imposed on
every set of edges incident to to a same vertex. A rooted trivalent diagram is
a trivalent diagram with a distinguished edge, its root. We shall describe and
analyze an algorithm giving an exhaustive list of rooted trivalent diagrams of
a given size (number of edges), the list being non-redundant in that no two
diagrams of the list are isomorphic. The algorithm will be shown to have
optimal performance in that the time necessary to generate a diagram will be
seen to be bounded in the amortized sense, the bound being independent of the
size of the diagrams. That's what we call the CAT property. One objective of
the paper is to provide a reusable theoretical framework for algorithms
generating exhaustive lists of complex combinatorial structures with attention
paid to the case of unlabeled structures and to those generators having the CAT
property.
  Let a Poisson structure on a manifold M be given. If it vanishes at a point
m, the evaluation at m defines a one dimensional representation of the Poisson
algebra of functions on M. We show that this representation can, in general,
not be quantized. Precisely, we give a counterexample for M=R^n, such that:
  (i) The evaluation map at 0 can not be quantized to a representation of the
algebra of functions with product the Kontsevich product associated to the
Poisson structure.
  (ii) For any formal Poisson structure extending the given one and vanishing
at zero up to second order in epsilon, (i) still holds.
  We do not know whether the second claim remains true if one allows the higher
order terms in epsilon to attain nonzero values at zero.
  We give a simple method to find ideal points of the character variety of a
3-manifold from an ideal triangulation.
  If the $\ell$-adic cohomology of a projective smooth variety, defined over a
local field $K$ with finite residue field $k$, is supported in codimension $\ge
1$, then every model over the ring of integers of $K$ has a $k$-rational point.
For $K$ a $p$-adic field, this is math/0405318, Theorem 1.1. If the model $\sX$
is regular, one has a congruence $|\sX(k)|\equiv 1 $ modulo $|k|$ for the
number of $k$-rational points 0704.1273, Theorem 1.1. The congruence is
violated if one drops the regularity assumption.
  The first author studied spacelike constant mean curvature one (CMC-1)
surfaces in de Sitter 3-space when the surfaces have no singularities except
within some compact subset and are of finite total curvature on the complement
of this compact subset. However, there are many CMC-1 surfaces whose singular
sets are not compact. In fact, such examples have already appeared in the
construction of trinoids given by Lee and the last author via hypergeometric
functions. In this paper, we improve the Osserman-type inequality given by the
first author. Moreover, we shall develop a fundamental framework that allows
the singular set to be non-compact, and then will use it to investigate the
global behavior of CMC-1 surfaces.
  For a proper scheme X with a fixed 1-perfect obstruction theory, we define
virtual versions of holomorphic Euler characteristic, chi y-genus, and elliptic
genus; they are deformation invariant, and extend the usual definition in the
smooth case. We prove virtual versions of the Grothendieck-Riemann-Roch and
Hirzebruch-Riemann-Roch theorems. We show that the virtual chi y-genus is a
polynomial, and use this to define a virtual topological Euler characteristic.
We prove that the virtual elliptic genus satisfies a Jacobi modularity
property; we state and prove a localization theorem in the toric equivariant
case. We show how some of our results apply to moduli spaces of stable sheaves.
  The Dwyer-Wilkerson space DI(4) is the only exotic 2-compact group. We
compute its v1-periodic homotopy groups.
  We discuss a recent result by C. Culter: every polygonal outer billiard has a
periodic trajectory.
  The notion of an adapted coordinate system, introduced by V.I.Arnol'd, plays
an important role in the study of asymptotic expansions of oscillatory
integrals. In two dimensions, A.N.Varchenko gave sufficient conditions for the
adaptness of a given coordinate system and proved the existence of an adapted
coordinate system for a class of analytic functions without multiple
components. Varchenko's proof is based on Hironaka's theorem on the resolution
of singularities.
  In this article, we present a new, elementary and concrete approach to these
results, which is based on the Puiseux series expansion of roots of the given
function. Our method applies to arbitrary real analytic functions, and even
extends to arbitrary smooth functions of finite type. Moreover, by avoiding
Hironaka's theorem, we can give necessary and sufficient conditions for the
adaptedness of a given coordinate system in the smooth, finite type setting.
  We study the boundedness problem for maximal operators $\M$ associated to
smooth hypersurfaces $S$ in 3-dimensional Euclidean space. For $p>2,$ we prove
that if no affine tangent plane to $S$ passes through the origin and $S$ is
analytic, then the associated maximal operator is bounded on $L^p(\RR^3)$ if
and only if $p>h(S),$ where $h(S)$ denotes the so-called height of the surface
$S.$ For non-analytic finite type $S$ we obtain the same statement with the
exception of the exponent $p=h(S).$ Our notion of height $h(S)$ is closely
related to A. N. Varchenko's notion of height $h(\phi)$ for functions $\phi$
such that $S$ can be locally represented as the graph of $\phi$ after a
rotation of coordinates.
  Several consequences of this result are discussed. In particular we verify a
conjecture by E.M. Stein and its generalization by A. Iosevich and E. Sawyer on
the connection between the decay rate of the Fourier transform of the surface
measure on $S$ and the $L^p$-boundedness of the associated maximal operator
$\M$, and a conjecture by Iosevich and Sawyer which relates the
$L^p$-boundedness of $\M$ to an integrability condition on $S$ for the distance
function to tangential hyperplanes, in dimension three.
  In particular, we also give ess. sharp uniform estimates for the Fourier
transform of the surface measure on $S,$ thus extending a result by V.N.
Karpushkin from the analytic to the smooth setting and implicitly verifying a
conjecture by V.I. Arnol'd in our context.
  Searching for a Lagrangian may seem either a trivial endeavour or an
impossible task. In this paper we show that the Jacobi last multiplier
associated with the Lie symmetries admitted by simple models of classical
mechanics produces (too?) many Lagrangians in a simple way. We exemplify the
method by such a classic as the simple harmonic oscillator, the harmonic
oscillator in disguise [H Goldstein, {\it Classical Mechanics}, 2nd edition
(Addison-Wesley, Reading, 1980)] and the damped harmonic oscillator. This is
the first paper in a series dedicated to this subject.
  By generalizing Gessel-Xin's Laurent series method for proving the
Zeilberger-Bressoud $q$-Dyson Theorem, we establish a family of $q$-Dyson style
constant term identities. These identities give explicit formulas for certain
coefficients of the $q$-Dyson product, including three conjectures of Sills' as
special cases and generalizing Stembridge's first layer formulas for characters
of $SL(n,\mathbb{C})$.
  We determine the structure of the $*$-Lie superalgebra generated by a set of
carefully chosen natural operators of an orientable WSD manifold of rank three.
This Lie superalgebra is formed by global sections of a natural Lie
superalgebra bundle, and turns out to be a product of $\mathbf{sl}(4,\C)$ with
the full special linear superalgebras of some graded vector spaces isotypical
with respect to a natural action of $\mathbf{so}(3,\R)$. We provide an explicit
description of one of the real forms of this superalgebra, which is
geometrically natural being made of $\mathbf{so}(3,\R)$-invariant operators
which preserve the Poincar\'e (odd Hermitean) inner product on the bundle of
forms.
  Let $G$ be a compact Lie group acting on a compact complex manifold $M$. We
prove a trace density formula for the $G$-Lefschetz number of a differential
operator on $M$. We generalize Engeli and Felder's recent results to orbifolds.
  Using a method of H. Davenport and W. M. Schmidt, we show that, for each
positive integer n, the ratio 2/n is the optimal exponent of simultaneous
approximation to real irrational numbers 1) by all conjugates of algebraic
numbers of degree n, and 2) by all but one conjugates of algebraic integers of
degree n+1.
  Let $n=2,3,4,5$ and let $X$ be a smooth complex projective hypersurface of
$\mathbb P^{n+1}$. In this paper we find an effective lower bound for the
degree of $X$, such that every holomorphic entire curve in $X$ must satisfy an
algebraic differential equation of order $k=n=\dim X$, and also similar bounds
for order $k>n$. Moreover, for every integer $n\ge 2$, we show that there are
no such algebraic differential equations of order $k<n$ for a smooth
hypersurface in $\mathbb P^{n+1}$.
  We give an elementary and direct combinatorial definition of opetopes in
terms of trees, well-suited for graphical manipulation and explicit
computation. To relate our definition to the classical definition, we recast
the Baez-Dolan slice construction for operads in terms of polynomial monads:
our opetopes appear naturally as types for polynomial monads obtained by
iterating the Baez-Dolan construction, starting with the trivial monad. We show
that our notion of opetope agrees with Leinster's. Next we observe a suspension
operation for opetopes, and define a notion of stable opetopes. Stable opetopes
form a least fixpoint for the Baez-Dolan construction. A final section is
devoted to example computations, and indicates also how the calculus of
opetopes is well-suited for machine implementation.
  The present paper originated from our previous study of the problem of
harmonic analysis on the infinite symmetric group. This problem leads to a
family {P_z} of probability measures, the z-measures, which depend on the
complex parameter z. The z-measures live on the Thoma simplex, an
infinite-dimensional compact space which is a kind of dual object to the
infinite symmetric group. The aim of the paper is to introduce stochastic
dynamics related to the z-measures. Namely, we construct a family of diffusion
processes in the Toma simplex indexed by the same parameter z. Our diffusions
are obtained from certain Markov chains on partitions of natural numbers n in a
scaling limit as n goes to infinity. These Markov chains arise in a natural
way, due to the approximation of the infinite symmetric group by the increasing
chain of the finite symmetric groups. Each z-measure P_z serves as a unique
invariant distribution for the corresponding diffusion process, and the process
is ergodic with respect to P_z. Moreover, P_z is a symmetrizing measure, so
that the process is reversible. We describe the spectrum of its generator and
compute the associated (pre)Dirichlet form.
  The thickness, NIR(K) of a knot or link K is defined to be the radius of the
largest solid tube one can put around the curve without any self intersections,
which is also known as the normal injectivity radius of K. For C^{1,1} curves
K, NIR(K)=min{(1/2)DCSC(K),(1/(supkappa(K))))}, where kappa(K) is the
generalized curvature, and the double critical self distance DCSD(K) is the
shortest length of the segments perpendicular to K at both end points. The
knots and links in ideal shapes (or tight knots or links) belong to the minima
of ropelength = length/thickness within a fixed isotopy class. In this article,
we prove that NIR(K)=(1/2)DCSC(K), for every relative minimum K of ropelength
in R^n for certain dimensions n, including n=3.
  In this paper we consider gradings by a finite abelian group $G$ on the Lie
algebra $\mathfrak{sl}_n(F)$ over an algebraically closed field $F$ of
characteristic different from 2 and not dividing $n$.
  We present a discrete multiscale expansion of the lattice potential
Korteweg-de Vries (lpKdV) equation on functions of infinite order of
slow-varyness. To do so we introduce a formal expansion of the shift operator
on many lattices holding at all orders. The lowest secularity condition from
the expansion of the lpKdV equation gives a nonlinear lattice equation,
depending on shifts of all orders, of the form of the nonlinear Schr\"odinger
(NLS) equation
  In this paper we find estimates for the optimal constant in the critical
Sobolev trace inequality $\lambda_1(\Omega)\|u\|_{L^1(\partial\Omega)} \le
\|u\|_{W^{1,1}(\Omega)}$ that are independent of $\Omega$. This estimates
generalize those of \cite{BS} concerning the $p$-Laplacian to the case $p=1$.
  We apply our results to prove existence of an extremal for this embedding. We
then study an optimal design problem related to $\lambda_1$, and eventually
compute the shape derivative of the functional $\Omega\to\lambda_1(\Omega)$. As
a consequence, we obtain that a ball of $\R^n$ of radius $n$ is critical for
volume-preserving deformations.
  Let $K$ denote an algebraically closed field with characteristic 0 and let
$V$ denote a vector space over $K$ with finite positive dimension. Let $A,A^*$
denote a tridiagonal pair on $V$ with diameter $d$. We say that $A,A^*$ has
Krawtchouk type whenever the sequence $\lbrace d-2i\rbrace_{i=0}^d$ is a
standard ordering of the eigenvalues of $A$ and a standard ordering of the
eigenvalues of $A^*$. Assume $A,A^*$ has Krawtchouk type. We show that there
exists a nondegenerate symmetric bilinear form $< , >$ on $V$ such that
$<Au,v>= < u,Av>$ and $<A^*u,v >= < u,A^*v>$ for $u,v\in V$. We show that the
following tridiagonal pairs are isomorphic: (i) $A,A^*$; (ii) $-A,-A^*$; (iii)
$A^*,A$; (iv) $-A^*,-A$. We give a number of related results and conjectures.
  We introduce Rota-Baxter categories and construct examples of such
structures.
  We use twisted sheaves to study the problem of index reduction for Brauer
classes. In general terms, this problem may be phrased as follows: given a
field $k$, a $k$-variety $X$, and a class $\alpha \in \Br(k)$, compute the
index of the class $\alpha_{k(X)} \in \Br(X)$ obtained from $\alpha$ by
extension of scalars to $k(X)$. We give a general method for computing index
reduction which refines classical results of Schofield and van den Bergh. When
$X$ is a curve of genus 1, we use Atiyah's theorem on the structure of stable
vector bundles with integral slope to show that our formula simplifies
dramatically, giving a complete solution to the index reduction problem in this
case. Using the twisted Fourier-Mukai transform, we show that a similarly
simple formula describes homogeneous index reduction on torsors under
higher-dimensional abelian varieties.
  In this paper, we extend the related notions of Dirichlet quasiminimizer,
$\omega-$minimizer and almost minimizer to the framework of multiple-valued
functions in the sense of Almgren and prove Holder regularity results. We also
give examples of those minimizers with various branch sets.
  The paper is devoted to homogenization of two-phase incompressible
viscoelastic flows with disordered microstructure. We study two cases. In the
first case, both phases are modeled as Kelvin-Voight viscoelastic materials. In
the second case, one phase is a Kelvin-Voight material, and the other is a
viscous Newtonian fluid. The microscale system contains the conservation of
mass and balance of momentum equations. The inertial terms in the momentum
equation incorporate the actual interface advected by the flow. In the
constitutive equations, a frozen interface is employed. The interface geometry
is arbitrary: we do not assume periodicity, statistical homogeneity or scale
separation. The problem is homogenized using G-convergence and oscillating test
functions. Since the microscale system is not parabolic, previously known
constructions of the test functions do not work here. The test functions
developed in the paper are non-local in time and satisfy divergence-free
constraint exactly. The latter feature enables us to avoid working with
pressure directly. We show that the effective medium is a single phase
viscoelastic material that is not necessarily of Kelvin-Voight type. The
effective constitutive equation contains a long memory viscoelastic term, as
well as instantaneous elastic and viscous terms.
  The best approximation by bounded product functions is calculated for some
very simple two-valued functions of two variables.
  We show that if $P$ is a lattice polytope in the nonnegative orthant of
$\R^k$ and $\chi$ is a coloring of the lattice points in the orthant such that
the color $\chi(a+b)$ depends only on the colors $\chi(a)$ and $\chi(b)$, then
the number of colors of the lattice points in the dilation $nP$ of $P$ is for
large $n$ given by a polynomial (or, for rational $P$, by a quasipolynomial).
This unifies a classical result of Ehrhart and Macdonald on lattice points in
polytopes and a result of Khovanski\u\i{} on sumsets in semigroups. We also
prove a strengthening of multivariate generalizations of Khovanski\u\i's
theorem. Another result of Khovanski\u\i{} states that the size of the image of
a finite set after $n$ applications of mappings from a finite family of
mutually commuting mappings is for large $n$ a polynomial. We give a
combinatorial proof of a multivariate generalization of this theorem.
  We review the connection between noncommutative gauge theory, matrix models
and fluid mechanical systems. The noncommutative Chern-Simons description of
the quantum Hall effect and bosonization of collective fermion states are used
as specific examples.
  We present in this work a complete session in a Mathematica notebook. The aim
of this notebook is to check identities in symmetric compositions. This
notebook is a complement of our work [1] and it has all the explicit
computations. We refer the reader to that paper which can be seen in
http://www.uibk.ac.at/mathematik/loos/jordan/index.html. First of all we will
present a few number of comands in order to simplify identities by extracting
scalars, SOut. The rest of the strategy holds on the powerfull of using
patterns and rules.
  Let $A=(a_{j,k})_{j,k \ge 1}$ be a non-negative matrix. In this paper, we
characterize those $A$ for which $\|A\|_{E, F}$ are determined by their actions
on decreasing sequences, where $E$ and $F$ are suitable normed Riesz spaces of
sequences.
  Let $A^2(D)$ be the Bergman space over the open unit disk $D$ in the complex
plane. Korenblum conjectured that there is an absolute constant $c \in (0,1)$
such that whenever $|f(z)|\le |g(z)|$ in the annulus $c<|z|<1$ then $||f(z)||
\le ||g(z)||$.In 2004 C.Wang gave an upper bound on $c$,that is, $c < 0.67795$,
and in 2006 A.Schuster gave a lower bound ,$c > 0.21 $ .In this paper we
slightly improve the upper bound for $c$.
  I explore some consequences of a groundbreaking result of Breimesser and
Pearson on the absolutely continuous spectrum of one-dimensional Schr"odinger
operators. These include an Oracle Theorem that predicts the potential and
rather general results on the approach to certain limit potentials. In
particular, we prove a Denisov-Rakhmanov type theorem for the general finite
gap case.
  The main theme is the following: It is extremely difficult to produce
absolutely continuous spectrum in one space dimension and thus its existence
has strong implications.
  The $k$-core of a graph is the largest subgraph of minimum degree at least
$k$. We show that for $k$ sufficiently large, the $(k + 2)$-core of a random
graph $\G(n,p)$ asymptotically almost surely has a spanning $k$-regular
subgraph. Thus the threshold for the appearance of a $k$-regular subgraph of a
random graph is at most the threshold for the $(k+2)$-core. In particular, this
pins down the point of appearance of a $k$-regular subgraph in $\G(n,p)$ to a
window for $p$ of width roughly $2/n$ for large $n$ and moderately large $k$.
  We determine a set of primitive idempotents and the basic algebra of the
restricted quantum group $\bar{U}_qsl_2(\mathbb{C})$. As a result, we can show
the dimension of the space of symmetric linear functions of
$\bar{U}_qsl_2(\mathbb{C})$ is $3p-1$
  A hidden nonlinear bosonized supersymmetry was revealed recently in
Poschl-Teller and finite-gap Lame systems. In spite of the intimate
relationship between the two quantum models, the hidden supersymmetry in them
displays essential differences. In particular, the kernel of the supercharges
of the Poschl-Teller system, unlike the case of Lame equation, includes
nonphysical states. By means of Lame equation, we clarify the nature of these
peculiar states, and show that they encode essential information not only on
the original hyperbolic Poschl-Teller system, but also on its singular
hyperbolic and trigonometric modifications, and reflect the intimate relation
of the model to a free particle system.
  For Riemannian manifolds with a measure $(M,g, e^{-f} dvol_g)$ we prove mean
curvature and volume comparison results when the $\infty$-Bakry-Emery Ricci
tensor is bounded from below and $f$ is bounded or $\partial_r f$ is bounded
from below, generalizing the classical ones (i.e. when $f$ is constant). This
leads to extensions of many theorems for Ricci curvature bounded below to the
Bakry-Emery Ricci tensor. In particular, we give extensions of all of the major
comparison theorems when $f$ is bounded. Simple examples show the bound on $f$
is necessary for these results.
  Let $f: S^2 \to S^2$ be an expanding branched covering map of the sphere to
itself with finite postcritical set $P_f$. Associated to $f$ is a canonical
quasisymmetry class $\GGG(f)$ of Ahlfors regular metrics on the sphere in which
the dynamics is (non-classically) conformal. We show \[ \inf_{X \in \GGG(f)}
\hdim(X) \geq Q(f)=\inf_\Gamma \{Q \geq 2: \lambda(f_{\Gamma,Q}) \geq 1\}.\]
The infimum is over all multicurves $\Gamma \subset S^2-P_f$. The map
$f_{\Gamma,Q}: \R^\Gamma \to \R^\Gamma$ is defined by \[ f_{\Gamma, Q}(\gamma)
=\sum_{[\gamma']\in\Gamma} \sum_{\delta \sim \gamma'} \deg(f:\delta \to
\gamma)^{1-Q}[\gamma'],\] where the second sum is over all preimages $\delta$
of $\gamma$ freely homotopic to $\gamma'$ in $S^2-P_f$, and $
\lambda(f_{\Gamma,Q})$ is its Perron-Frobenius leading eigenvalue. This
generalizes Thurston's observation that if $Q(f)>2$, then there is no
$f$-invariant classical conformal structure.
  The generalized test ideals introduced in [HY] are related to multiplier
ideals via reduction to characteristic p. In addition, they satisfy many of the
subtle properties of the multiplier ideals, which in characteristic zero follow
via vanishing theorems. In this note we give several examples to emphasize the
different behavior of test ideals and multiplier ideals. Our main result is
that every ideal in an F-finite regular local ring can be written as a
generalized test ideal. We also prove the semicontinuity of $F$-pure thresholds
(though the analogue of the Generic Restriction Theorem for multiplier ideals
does not hold).
  We have studied a faded problem, the Jacobian Conjecture ~:
  \noindent
  {\sf The Jacobian Conjecture $(JC_n)$}~:
  If $f_1, \cdots, f_n$ are elements in a polynomial ring $k[X_1, \cdots, X_n]$
over a field $k$ of characteristic $0$ such that the Jacobian $\det(\partial
f_i/ \partial X_j) $ is a nonzero constant, then $k[f_1, \cdots, f_n] = k[X_1,
\cdots, X_n]$.
  For this purpose, we generalize it to the following form~:
  \noindent
  {\sf The Generalized Jacobian Conjecture $(GJC)$}~:
  {\it Let $\varphi : S \rightarrow T$ be an unramified homomorphism of
Noetherian domains with $T^\times = \varphi(S^\times)$. Assume that $T$ is a
factorial domain and that $S$ is a simply connected normal domain. Then
$\varphi$ is an isomorphism. }
  For the consistency of our discussion, we raise some serious (or idiot)
questions and some comments concerning the examples appeared in the papers
published by the certain excellent mathematicians (though we are unwilling to
deal with them). Since the existence of such examples would be against our
original target Conjecture$(GJC)$, we have to dispute their arguments about the
existence of their respective (so called) counter-examples. Our conclusion is
that they are not perfect counter-examples as are shown explicitly.
  We present an account of negative differential forms within a natural
algebraic framework of differential graded algebras, and explain their
relationship with forms on path spaces.
  Using the recently introduced parametric representation of non-commutative
quantum field theory, we implement here the dimensional regularization and
renormalization of the vulcanized $\Phi^{\star 4}_4$ model on the Moyal space.
  In the setting of additive regression model for continuous time process, we
establish the optimal uniform convergence rates and optimal asymptotic
quadratic error of additive regression. To build our estimate, we use the
marginal integration method.
  The inviscid limit of the stochastic Burgers equation is discussed in terms
of the level surfaces of the minimising Hamilton-Jacobi function, the classical
mechanical caustic and the Maxwell set and their algebraic pre-images under the
classical mechanical flow map. The problem is analysed in terms of a reduced
(one dimensional) action function. We demonstrate that the geometry of the
caustic, level surfaces and Maxwell set can change infinitely rapidly causing
turbulent behaviour which is stochastic in nature. The intermittence of this
turbulence is demonstrated in terms of the recurrence of two processes.
  We establish some uniform limit results in the setting of additive regression
model estimation. Our results allow to give an asymptotic 100% confidence bands
for these components. These results are stated in the framework of i.i.d random
vectors when the marginal integration estimation method is used.
  We apply the replica method to analyze vector precoding, a method to reduce
transmit power in antenna array communications. The analysis applies to a very
general class of channel matrices. The statistics of the channel matrix enter
the transmitted energy per symbol via its R-transform. We find that vector
precoding performs much better for complex than for real alphabets. As a
byproduct, we find a nonlinear precoding method with polynomial complexity that
outperforms NP-hard Tomlinson-Harashima precoding for binary modulation on
complex channels if the number of transmit antennas is slightly larger than
twice the number of receive antennas.
  The present paper provides an overview of results obtained in four recent
papers by the authors. These papers address the problem of intermittency for
the Parabolic Anderson Model in a \emph{time-dependent random medium},
describing the evolution of a ``reactant'' in the presence of a ``catalyst''.
Three examples of catalysts are considered: (1) independent simple random
walks; (2) symmetric exclusion process; (3) symmetric voter model. The focus is
on the annealed Lyapunov exponents, i.e., the exponential growth rates of the
successive moments of the reactant. It turns out that these exponents exhibit
an interesting dependence on the dimension and on the diffusion constant.
  Based on Stein's method, we derive upper bounds for Poisson process
approximation in the $L_1$-Wasserstein metric $d_2^{(p)}$, which is based on a
slightly adapted $L_p$-Wasserstein metric between point measures. For the case
$p=1$, this construction yields the metric $d_2$ introduced in [Barbour and
Brown Stochastic Process. Appl. 43 (1992) 9--31], for which Poisson process
approximation is well studied in the literature. We demonstrate the usefulness
of the extension to general $p$ by showing that $d_2^{(p)}$-bounds control
differences between expectations of certain $p$th order average statistics of
point processes. To illustrate the bounds obtained for Poisson process
approximation, we consider the structure of 2-runs and the hard core model as
concrete examples.
  The inviscid limit of the stochastic Burgers equation, with body forces white
noise in time, is discussed in terms of the level surfaces of the minimising
Hamilton-Jacobi function, the classical mechanical caustic and the Maxwell set
and their algebraic pre-images under the classical mechanical flow map. The
problem is analysed in terms of a reduced (one dimensional) action function. We
give an explicit expression for an algebraic surface containing the Maxwell set
and caustic in the polynomial case. Those parts of the caustic and Maxwell set
which are singular are characterised. We demonstrate how the geometry of the
caustic, level surfaces and Maxwell set can change infinitely rapidly causing
turbulent behaviour which is stochastic in nature, and we determine its
intermittence in terms of the recurrent behaviour of two processes.
  We consider the generalized Korteweg-de Vries equation
  \partial_t u + \partial_x (\partial_x^2 u + f(u))=0, \quad (t,x)\in
[0,T)\times \mathbb{R}, (1)
  with general $C^3$ nonlinearity $f$. Under an explicit condition on $f$ and
$c>0$, there exists a solution in the energy space $H^1$ of (1) of the type
$u(t,x)=Q_c(x-x_0-ct)$, called soliton.
  In this paper, under general assumptions on $f$ and $Q_c$, we prove that the
family of soliton solutions around $Q_c$ is asymptotically stable in some local
sense in $H^1$, i.e. if $u(t)$ is close to $Q_{c}$ (for all $t\geq 0$), then
$u(t)$ locally converges in the energy space to some $Q_{c_+}$ as $t\to
+\infty$. Note in particular that we do not assume the stability of $Q_{c}$.
This result is based on a rigidity property of equation (1) around $Q_{c}$ in
the energy space whose proof relies on the introduction of a dual problem.
These results extend the main results in previous works devoted to the pure
power case.
  The purpose of this paper is to find optimal estimates for the Green function
of a half-space of {\it the relativistic $\alpha$-stable process} with
parameter $m$ on $\Rd$ space. This process has an infinitesimal generator of
the form $mI-(m^{2/\alpha}I-\Delta)^{\alpha/2},$ where $0<\alpha<2$, $m>0$, and
reduces to the isotropic $\alpha$-stable process for $m=0$. Its potential
theory for open bounded sets has been well developed throughout the recent
years however almost nothing was known about the behaviour of the process on
unbounded sets. The present paper is intended to fill this gap and we provide
two-sided sharp estimates for the Green function for a half-space. As a
byproduct we obtain some improvements of the estimates known for bounded sets
specially for balls. The advantage of these estimates is a clarification of the
relationship between the diameter of the ball and the parameter $m$ of the
process.
  The main result states that the Green function is comparable with the Green
function for the Brownian motion if the points are away from the boundary of a
half-space and their distance is greater than one. On the other hand for the
remaining points the Green function is somehow related the Green function for
the isotropic $\alpha$-stable process. For example, for $d\ge3$, it is
comparable with the Green function for the isotropic $\alpha$-stable process,
provided that the points are close enough.
  We consider the generalized Korteweg-de Vries equation $$ \partial_t u +
\partial_x (\partial_x^2 u + f(u))=0, \quad (t,x)\in [0,T)\times \mathbb{R}$$
with general $C^2$ nonlinearity $f$. Under an explicit condition on $f$ and
$c>0$, there exists a solution in the energy space $H^1$ of the type
$u(t,x)=Q_c(x-x_0-ct)$, called soliton. Stability theory for $Q_c$ is
well-known.
  In previous works, we have proved that for $f(u)=u^p$, $p=2,3,4$, the family
of solitons is asymptotically stable in some local sense in $H^1$, i.e. if
$u(t)$ is close to $Q_{c}$ (for all $t\geq 0$), then $u(t,.+\rho(t))$ locally
converges in the energy space to some $Q_{c_+}$ as $t\to +\infty$, for some
$c^+\sim c$.
  Then, the asymptotic stability result could be extended to the case of
general assumptions on $f$ and $Q_c$.
  The objective of this paper is twofold.
  The main objective is to prove that in the case $f(u)=u^p$, $p=2,3,4$,
$\rho(t)-c_+ t$ has limit as $t\to +\infty$ under the additional assumption
$x_+ u\in L^2$.
  The second objective of this paper is to provide large time stability and
asymptotic stability results for two soliton solutions for the case of general
nonlinearity $f(u)$, when the ratio of the speeds of the solitons is small. The
motivation is to accompany forthcoming works devoted to the collision of two
solitons in the nonintegrable case. The arguments are refinements of previous
works specialized to the case $u(t)\sim Q_{c_1}+Q_{c_2}$, for $0< c_2 \ll c_1$.
  Let kappa be an uncountable regular cardinal. Assuming 2^kappa=kappa^+, we
show that the clone lattice on a set of size kappa is not dually atomic.
  The question of obtaining well-defined criteria for multiple criteria
decision making problems is well-known. One of the approaches dealing with this
question is the concept of nonessential objective function. A certain objective
function is called nonessential if the set of efficient solutions is the same
both with or without that objective function. In this paper we put together two
methods for determining nonessential objective functions. A computational
implementation is done using a computer algebra system.
  We study the relationship between the masses and the geometric properties of
central configurations. We prove that in the planar four-body problem, a convex
central configuration is symmetric with respect to one diagonal if and only if
the masses of the two particles on the other diagonal are equal. If these two
masses are unequal, then the less massive one is closer to the former diagonal.
Finally, we extend these results to the case of non-planar central
configurations of five particles.
  We introduce a notion of depth three tower of three rings C < B < A as a
useful generalization of depth two ring extension. If A = End B_C and B | C is
a Frobenius extension, this also captures the notion of depth three for a
Frobenius extension in math.RA/0107064 and math.RA/0108067 such that if B | C
is depth three, then A | C is depth two (cf. math.QA/0001020). If A, B and C
correspond to a tower of subgroups G > H > K via the group algebra over a fixed
base ring, the depth three condition is the condition that subgroup K has
normal closure K^G contained in H. For a depth three tower of rings, there is a
pre-Galois theory for the ring End {}_BA_C and coring (A \otimes_B A)^C
involving Morita context bimodules and left coideal subrings. This is applied
in the last two sections to a specialization of a Jacobson-Bourbaki
correspondence theorem for augmented rings to depth two extensions with depth
three intermediate division rings.
  We present a novel technique for encoding and decoding constant weight binary
codes that uses a geometric interpretation of the codebook. Our technique is
based on embedding the codebook in a Euclidean space of dimension equal to the
weight of the code. The encoder and decoder mappings are then interpreted as a
bijection between a certain hyper-rectangle and a polytope in this Euclidean
space. An inductive dissection algorithm is developed for constructing such a
bijection. We prove that the algorithm is correct and then analyze its
complexity. The complexity depends on the weight of the code, rather than on
the block length as in other algorithms. This approach is advantageous when the
weight is smaller than the square root of the block length.
  Let (M,g_0) be a compact Riemannian manifold of dimension n \geq 4. We show
that the normalized Ricci flow deforms g_0 to a constant curvature metric
provided that (M,g_0) x R has positive isotropic curvature. This condition is
stronger than 2-positive flag curvature but weaker than 2-positive curvature
operator.
  We are interested in the cost-convex potentials in optimal mass transport
theory, and we show by direct and geometric arguments the equivalence between
cost-subdifferentials and ordinary subdifferentials of cost-convex functions,
under the assumptions A0, A1, A2, and A3W on cost functions introduced by Ma,
Trudinger, and Wang. The connectivity of contact sets of optimal transport maps
follows as a direct corollary. Our approach is quite different from the
previous result of Loeper which he obtained as the first step toward his
Hoelder regularity theory of potential functions, and which was based upon
approximation using the regularity theory of Ma, Trudinger, and Wang. The
result in this paper improves his result, by relaxing certain geometrical
assumptions on the domains and targets; it also completes his Hoelder
regularity theory of potential functions on the round sphere, by making it
self-contained.
  Let $\lambda \in (0,1)$ and let $T$ be a $r\times r$ complex matrix with
polar decomposition $T=U|T|$. Then, the $\la$- Aluthge transform is defined by
$$ \Delta_\lambda (T )= |T|^{\lambda} U |T |^{1-\lambda}. $$ Let
$\Delta_\lambda^{n}(T)$ denote the n-times iterated Aluthge transform of $T$,
$n\in\mathbb{N}$. We prove that the sequence
$\{\Delta_\lambda^{n}(T)\}_{n\in\mathbb{N}}$ converges for every $r\times r$
{\bf diagonalizable} matrix $T$. We show regularity results for the two
parameter map $(\la, T) \mapsto \alulit{\infty}{T}$, and we study for which
matrices the map $(0,1)\ni \lambda \mapsto \Delta_\lambda^{\infty}(T)$ is
constant.
  LC-loops, RC-loops and C-loops are collectively called central loops. It is
shown that an LC(RC)-loop is a left(right) universal loop. But an LC(RC)-loop
is a universal loop if and only if it is a right(left) universal loop. It is
observed that not all RC-loops or LC-loops or C-loops are universal loops. But
if an RC-loop(LC-loop, C-loop) is universal, then it is a right Bol loop(left
Bol loop, Moufang loop) respectively. If a loop and its right or left isotope
are commutative then the loop is a C-loop if and only if its right or left
isotope is a C-loop. If a C-loop is central square and its right or left
isotope is an alternative central square loop, then the latter is a C-loop.
Necessary and sufficient condition for an LC-loop(RC-loop) to be a
left(right)G-loop is established. Consequently, necessary and sufficient
conditions for an LC-loop, and an RC-loop to be a G-loop are established. A
necessary and sufficient condition for a C-loop to be a G-loop is established.
  Defining a spin connection is necessary for formulating Dirac's bispinor
equation in a curved space-time. Hestenes has shown that a bispinor field is
equivalent to an orthonormal tetrad of vector fields together with a complex
scalar field. In this paper, we show that using Hestenes' tetrad for the spin
connection in a Riemannian space-time leads to a Yang-Mills formulation of the
Dirac Lagrangian in which the bispinor field is mapped to a set of Yang-Mills
gauge potentials and a complex scalar field. This result was previously proved
for a Minkowski space-time using Fierz identities. As an application we derive
several different non-Riemannian spin connections found in the literature
directly from an arbitrary linear connection acting on Hestenes' tetrad and
scalar fields. We also derive spin connections for which Dirac's bispinor
equation is form invariant. Previous work has not considered form invariance of
the Dirac equation as a criterion for defining a general spin connection.
  We show that despite the inherent non-locality of quantum field theories on
the Groenewold-Moyal (GM) plane, one can find a class of ${\bf C}$, ${\bf P}$,
${\bf T}$ and ${\bf CPT}$ invariant theories. In particular, these are theories
without gauge fields or with just gauge fields and no matter fields. We also
show that in the presence of gauge fields, one can have a field theory where
the Hamiltonian is ${\bf C}$ and ${\bf T}$ invariant while the $S$-matrix
violates ${\bf P}$ and ${\bf CPT}$.
  In non-abelian gauge theories with matter fields such as the electro-weak and
$QCD$ sectors of the standard model of particle physics, ${\bf C}$, ${\bf P}$,
${\bf T}$ and the product of any pair of them are broken while ${\bf CPT}$
remains intact for the case $\theta^{0i} =0$. (Here $x^{\mu} \star x^{\nu} -
x^{\nu} \star x^{\mu} = i \theta^{\mu \nu}$, $x^{\mu}$: coordinate functions,
$\theta^{\mu \nu} = -\theta^{\nu \mu}=$ constant.) When $\theta^{0i} \neq 0$,
it contributes to breaking also ${\bf P}$ and ${\bf CPT}$. It is known that the
$S$-matrix in a non-abelian theory depends on $\theta^{\mu \nu}$ only through
$\theta^{0i}$. The $S$-matrix is frame dependent. It breaks (the identity
component of the) Lorentz group. All the noncommutative effects vanish if the
scattering takes place in the center-of-mass frame, or any frame where
$\theta^{0i}P^{\textrm{in}}_{i} = 0$, but not otherwise. ${\bf P}$ and ${\bf
CPT}$ are good symmetries of the theory in this special case.
  A covariant functor on the elliptic curves with complex multiplication is
constructed. The functor takes values in the noncommutative tori with real
multiplication. A conjecture on the rank of an elliptic curve is formulated.
  Cohen and Godin constructed positive boundary topological quantum field
theory (TQFT) structure on the homology of free loop spaces of oriented closed
smooth manifolds by associating a certain operations called string operations
to orientable surfaces with parametrized boundaries. We show that all TQFT
string operations associated to surfaces of genus at least one vanish
identically. This is a simple consequence of properties of the loop coproduct
which will be discussed in detail. One interesting property is that the loop
coproduct is nontrivial only on the degree $d$ homology group of the connected
component of $LM$ consisting of contractible loops, where $d=\dim M$, with
values in the degree 0 homology group of constant loops. Thus the loop
coproduct behaves in a dramatically simpler way than the loop product.
  Chas and Sullivan proved the existence of a Batalin-Vilkovisky algebra
structure in the homology of free loop spaces on closed finite dimensional
smooth manifolds using chains and chain homotopies. This algebraic structure
involves an associative product called the loop product, a Lie bracket called
the loop bracket, and a square 0 operator called the BV operator. Cohen and
Jones gave a homotopy theoretic description of the loop product in terms of
spectra. In this paper, we give an explicit homotopy theoretic description of
the loop bracket and, using this description, we give a homological proof of
the BV identity connecting the loop product, the loop bracket, and the BV
operator. The proof is based on an observation that the loop bracket and the BV
derivation are given by the same cycle in the free loop space, except that they
differ by parametrization of loops.
  In some bicategories, the 1-cells are `morphisms' between the 0-cells, such
as functors between categories, but in others they are `objects' over the
0-cells, such as bimodules, spans, distributors, or parametrized spectra. Many
bicategorical notions do not work well in these cases, because the `morphisms
between 0-cells', such as ring homomorphisms, are missing. We can include them
by using a pseudo double category, but usually these morphisms also induce base
change functors acting on the 1-cells. We avoid complicated coherence problems
by describing base change `nonalgebraically', using categorical fibrations. The
resulting `framed bicategories' assemble into 2-categories, with attendant
notions of equivalence, adjunction, and so on which are more appropriate for
our examples than are the usual bicategorical ones.
  We then describe two ways to construct framed bicategories. One is an
analogue of rings and bimodules which starts from one framed bicategory and
builds another. The other starts from a `monoidal fibration', meaning a
parametrized family of monoidal categories, and produces an analogue of the
framed bicategory of spans. Combining the two, we obtain a construction which
includes both enriched and internal categories as special cases.
  We revisit our earlier work on the AKSZ formulation of topological sigma
model on generalized complex manifolds, or Hitchin model. We show that the
target space geometry geometry implied by the BV master equations is
Poisson--quasi--Nijenhuis geometry recently introduced and studied by Sti\'enon
and Xu (in the untwisted case). Poisson--quasi--Nijenhuis geometry is more
general than generalized complex geometry and comprises it as a particular
case. Next, we show how gauging and reduction can be implemented in the Hitchin
model. We find that the geometry resulting form the BV master equation is
closely related to but more general than that recently described by Lin and
Tolman, suggesting a natural framework for the study of reduction of
Poisson--quasi--Nijenhuis manifolds.
  Distinguished selfadjoint extensions of Dirac operators are constructed for a
class of potentials including Coulombic ones up to the critical case,
$-|x|^{-1}$. The method uses Hardy-Dirac inequalities and quadratic form
techniques.
  Motivated by the work of Segal and Segal on the Black-Scholes pricing formula
in the quantum context, we study a quantum extension of the Black-Scholes
equation within the context of Hudson-Parthasarathy quantum stochastic
calculus. Our model includes stock markets described by quantum Brownian motion
and Poisson process.
  We classify all possible limits of families of translates of a fixed,
arbitrary complex plane curve. We do this by giving a set-theoretic description
of the projective normal cone (PNC) of the base scheme of a natural rational
map, determined by the curve, from the $P^8$ of 3x3 matrices to the $P^N$ of
plane curves of degree $d$. In a sequel to this paper we determine the
multiplicities of the components of the PNC. The knowledge of the PNC as a
cycle is essential in our computation of the degree of the PGL(3)-orbit closure
of an arbitrary plane curve, performed in our earlier paper "Linear orbits of
arbitrary plane curves".
  The paper surveys recent progress in establishing uniqueness and developing
inversion formulas and algorithms for the thermoacoustic tomography. In
mathematical terms, one deals with a rather special inverse problem for the
wave equation. In the case of constant sound speed, it can also be interpreted
as a problem concerning the spherical mean transform.
  Every complex plane curve C determines a subscheme S of the $P^8$ of 3x3
matrices, whose projective normal cone (PNC) captures subtle invariants of C.
In "Limits of PGL(3)-translates of plane curves, I" we obtain a set-theoretic
description of the PNC and thereby we determine all possible limits of families
of plane curves whose general element is isomorphic to C. The main result of
this article is the determination of the PNC as a cycle; this is an essential
ingredient in our computation in "Linear orbits of arbitrary plane curves" of
the degree of the PGL(3)-orbit closure of an arbitrary plane curve, an
invariant of natural enumerative significance.
  We present a method for compactifying stacks of $\PGL_n$-torsors (Azumaya
algebras) on algebraic spaces. In particular, when the ambient space is a
smooth projective surface we use our methods to show that various moduli spaces
are irreducible and carry natural virtual fundamental classes. We also prove a
version of the Skolem-Noether theorem for certain algebra objects in the
derived category, which allows us to give an explicit description of the
boundary points in our compactified moduli problem.
  Full details are given for the definition and construction of the wreath
product of two arbitrary Lie algebras, in the hope that it can lead to the
definition of a suitable Lie group to be the wreath product of two given Lie
groups. In the process, quite a few new notions are needed, and introduced.
Such are, for example : Formal series with variables in a vector space and
coefficients in some other vector space. Derivation of a formal series relative
to another formal series. The Lie algebra of a vector space. Formal actions of
Lie algebras over vector spaces. The basic formal action of a Lie algebra over
itself (as a formal version of the analytic aspect of the infinitesimal
operation law of a Lie groupuscule). More generally, the wreath product of two
Lie algebras is defined, relative to a formal action of the second onto an
arbitrary vector space. Main features are : A description of the triangular
actions of wreath products over product vector spaces, and a Kaloujnine-Krasner
type theorem : In essence, it says that all Lie extensions of a given Lie
algebra by another Lie algebra are, indeed, subalgebras of their wreath
product.
  We continue in this article the study of laminations dual to very small
actions of a free group F on R-trees. We prove that this lamination determines
completely the combinatorial structure of the R-tree (the so-called observers'
topology). On the contrary the metric is not determined by the lamination, and
an R-tree may be equipped with different metrics which have the same observers'
topology.
